Assam: Wild elephant carcass recovered in Baksa along Indo-Bhutan border
Dipak KR Pathak, Northeast Now
July 8, 2018

The carcass of a wild elephant was recovered at No 3 Pub Guwabari along the
Indo-Bhutan border under the Tamulpur forest range in Baksa district on
Sunday morning.

It may be mentioned that a huge herd of wild elephants has been moving from
place to place in the greater Nagrijuli area in Baksa district along the
Indo-Bhutan international border for the last two weeks in search of food.

The herd of wild elephants has been continuously creating fear-psychosis
among the villagers in the Nagrijuli area and several houses have also been
destroyed by the wild elephants.

A large number of people gathered at the spot where the wild elephant was
found dead and mourned the death of the wild elephant.

The forest officials also arrived at the place and recovered the carcass of
the wild elephant.

Later the forest officials made arrangement for post-mortem of the wild
elephant.

However, till filing of this report, it is yet to be ascertained the actual
cause of the wild elephant’s death.

However, the locals suspect that the wild elephant might have died due to
electric shock.

It may be mentioned that wild elephants come down from Bhutan side to the
plain areas in Baksa and come into conflict with human beings as a result
of which in last 15 years at least 70 people and 7 wild elephants have died
in the Tamulpur Sub-division under Baksa district alone.

“But no preventive measure has been taken by State Government and the
Forest Department to control the elephant menace. People have been using
metal wire, connected with battery and inverters which have been hanged in
the boundary of their villages to protect their houses and property,” said
sources.

On Sunday also, a huge herd of wild elephants was seen moving around the
Nagrijuli area. Villagers have demanded that the villagers of the area be
protected by the Government and the Forest department.

https://nenow.in/environment/assam-wild-elephant-carcass-recovered-baksa-along-indo-bhutan-border.html
