Enraged farmer kills elephant near Bandipur (India)
Times of India
26 August 2009

BANGALORE: How angry can you get at an animal? Though human-animal conflict is a regular event with more and more wild habitats being encroached, wrath like this is rare. A farmer near Bandipur reserve shot a young elephant dead when she was about to enter his farm on Wednesday.

Even while crop compensation packages have almost been tripled, fear and intolerance still persist among farmers who live on the border areas.

The female elephant was six years old and was grazing with three other elephants in a herd. According to Deputy Conservator of Forests of Bandipur Tiger Reserve, Raju, the elephant strayed in to the ragi farm, which is around 2 kms away from the forest. Mada Shetty, the farmer, allegedly shot the elephant on its forehead as soon as it was spotted near the farm.

One bullet hit his forehead while the other pierced through his eyelid. The animal collapsed on the spot. "Since she was shot on the head, she succumbed immediately. We are not sure how the farmer got access to the revolver and what kind of a weapon it is. Once the body is opened, we can identify if these are muzzle loader bullet or not. But from the injuries, we are sure that she was shot," he said.

Farmers with weapons are supposed to get them registered with the forest department. "It was just ragi and the elephant did not even destroy the crop. We don't understand why he reacted so violently. Shetty is absconding," he added.

Though the forest staff say that legal action will be taken and a team of police officials and a doctor are investigating the spot, they are quite shocked by the incident. Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, BK Singh said "It is definitely not common for framers to shoot down elephants or other animals. Either they dig a trench or use dry chillis. This behaviour is abnormal and disappointing. The crop compensation package has been increased so that we can limit the deaths of animals due to such conflicts. I don't understand why he shot the elephant so brutally," he said.

Currently, for every quintal of damaged Ragi the department is paying Rs 600. Human-elephant conflict is more common near the estates of Coorg but off late, it has been happening regularly in other forest areas as well. The farm where the elephant was shot is in Doddaburgi village and is not a very conflict prone area.
