Kaziranga elephant killed by power lines (India)

The Telegraph

September 25, 2010



Guwahati, Sept. 25: Power cables have turned into a death trap for denizens of Kaziranga National Park.



This came to light when rangers found the carcass of an adult male elephant, which was electrocuted at Kukurakata reserve forest in Burapahar range of the park a couple of days ago, this morning.



This is the first incident of an animal dying of electrocution in Kaziranga.



Terming the incident “an accident”, park director Surajit Dutta said the mishap occurred because the elephant uprooted a tree that fell resulting in the snapping of the power cables.



Another forest official said low-lying power cables connected to a telephone tower in the area caused the accident. “The elephant uprooted a tree in the area and it fell on the already low-lying cables. The elephant came in contact with the cables and was electrocuted,” he said, adding that the “incident was unfortunate.”



The veterinarian who conducted a post-mortem on the carcass said there were clear signs of the elephant, which was about 50 years of age, being electrocuted.



A large number of birds, mostly parrots, had died of electrocution in the Bogoriguri area under Kohora range of the park a few years back.



There have also been instances of poachers using power lines to kill animals, especially rhinos. They laid cables connected to power lines running above. Such an incident had come to light in 2007. Cables laid on tracks used by animals were frequently recovered from the foothills of Karbi Anglong hills, adjacent to Kaziranga.



A Kaziranga official said the park authorities had made several appeals to the authorities to shift the power cables from the particular area to avoid such incidents.



The ministry of environment and forests has proposed a bill to be passed in Parliament making electrocution of animals a punishable offence.



By including the term ‘electrocuting’ in the definition of hunting, the Amendment Act seeks to explicitly make the act of electrocuting an animal a punishable offence.



Dispur has also set up joint co-ordination committees in every district to monitor the maintenance of transmission lines and prevent electrocution of elephants.



In another incident an elephant calf died after it was trapped in a drain at Numaligarh tea estate, 30km from Kaziranga, in Golaghat district this morning.



 

Article at the following link:

http://www.telegraphindia.com/1100926/jsp/northeast/story_12981606.jsp