2 calves die in Bengal, jumbos lay siege to area (India)

The Pioneer

September 27, 2010   



The spree of elephant deaths continued in North Bengal. Close on the heels of a speeding mail train mowing down seven elephants, two more calves were found dead in West Bengal's Buxa Tiger Reserve under mysterious circumstances on Saturday.



The two carcasses were gheraoed by jumbo herds making it difficult for the elephant squads to recover the bodies.



According to Rajendra Jakhar, Deputy Field Director, Buxa, the calves — one male and other female — were found to be lying at a distance of about 5 metres from each other. The carcasses were surrounded by two separate herds of elephants, numbering around 30.



“Even the local squads could not drive them away as they almost laid siege to the body till wee hours of Sunday. We could approach the site only after they had dispersed,” he said. The two had probably died shortly after birth, as placenta was found attached to their bodies, he pointed out.



He apprehended that the death of the calves could be due to certain infection at birth time. As per the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), we have collected tissue samples from the dead animals for pathological examination, he said.



Meanwhile, the head of Project Elephant, AN Prasad, reached Jalpaiguri Division on Saturday to review the situation. In an emergency meeting with the State forest officials, including the CCF West Bengal, S Patel, and DRM Alipurdwar S Singh, Prasad stressed on more coordination between the departments.



“A control room would be set up at the Alipurdwar rail junction, which would be manned by forest and rail staff,” he said. In case any animal herd arrives, the control room would instantly alert the respective driver. The control room would also be in touch with the elephant squads.



The train would not cross the maximum speed limit of 45-50 kmph while crossing the 168-km sensitive zone through forests and corridor areas, the meeting decided. No mail train would cross the stretch at night. Further, the Railways would clear out vegetation and paddy land up to a distance of 30 metre on each side of the track for better visibility and to check jumbos, crossing the railway tracks to reach the fields.



A public notice would also be issued in nearby villages so that in case any animal is sighted near the tracks, the nearest railway station would be instantly informed, to prevent mishaps.



The meeting decided that top-level rail and forest officials would meet at an interval of three months to keep track of the situation. A two-member review committee of rail and forest officials has been constituted for monthly meetings. The Railways has offered to help the forest officials, if necessary, for recovery of bodies in case of accidents.



In another incident, locals of Jalpaiguri forest division have decided to observe an elaborate 'shraadh' ceremony, in memory of the deceased elephants on Monday in accordance with the Hindu rites. 



Article at the following link:

http://www.dailypioneer.com/286020/2-calves-die-in-Bengal-jumbos-lay-siege-to-area.html
