Tusker dies after injury in bomb (India)

Times of India

December 21, 2010



NAYAGRAM (WEST MIDNAPORE): A tusker that had sustained a bomb injury two days ago died on Sunday night in Pungiri village in West Midnapore's Nayagram. The autopsy on Monday, however, couldn't determine whether the elephant had succumbed to the bomb injury in its forehead or a heart attack it suffered due to the sound of bombs villagers burst to scare it away.



Mrinal Kanti Mondal, divisional forest officer of the Kharagpur range, said they have now decided to send viscera samples of the dead elephant to the forensic laboratory at the Bengal Veterinary College and Hospital at Belgachia to ascertain the cause of death.



The tusker that belonged to a herd of 50 elephants from Dalma had gone amok and entered the village when it was attacked by villagers. The bomb injury left a wound in its forehead but it didn't necessarily indicate that it was the cause of death, veterinary surgeon Ranjit Mondal said in his autopsy report. Villagers said the elephant suddenly collapsed in Pungiri while it was roaming around.



An elephant calf had died in the same village on November 14. The calf fell into a ditch and a tusker tried to lift it. In the process, the adult elephant ended up boring his tusks into the stomach of the calf, killing it.



Forest officials said a herd of 120 Dalma elephants had entered West Midnapore around July. Around 80 members of this herd walked across to Orissa on November 9 while the splinter group of 40 remained in the Nayagram and Sankrail areas of the district. Fifty of the 80 elephants that had gone to Orissa returned on November 29. These two splinter herds of 50 and 40 roamed around separately in the forests bordering Sitalpura, Purchiboni, Malam and other villages of Nayagram. They would often enter villages and destroy homes and crops and had even killed a man last month. Villagers often chased them with torches and also burst crude bombs.



About 100 villagers on Monday demonstrated before Nayagram forest range officer Ashoke Sen to protest against the forest department's failure to compensate them for damages elephant attacks had caused them.



Article at the following link:

ttp://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kolkata-/Tusker-dies-after-injury-in-bomb/articleshow/7135967.cms#ixzz18hLqWVhx
