Epidemic kills six K’taka, TN elephants in 20 days (India)
The Pioneer
January 03, 2011  

KESTUR VASUKI | BANGALORE

A new epidemic, Haemorr-hagic Septicaemia (HS), has killed six wild elephants in just 20 days in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The Forest Department fears this deadly outbreak may spread to ungulates such as wild bison, deer and other animals too.

Three female elephants died at Bailur Forest Range in Biligiri Ranga Temple Wildlife Sanctuary (BRTWS) of Karnataka, while three others were killed in the bordering Sathyamangala forest of Tamil Nadu.

This range falls in the Nilgiri biosphere, which is home to 6,000 Asiatic elephants. It is a major migratory route linking three States.

Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and chief wildlife warden BK Singh spoke to The Pioneer about the grim situation. “The reason for the spread of this virus is grazing of domestic animals inside the park. We have instructed grazers not to let the domestic herd into the forest. It is quite serious,” Singh said.

“This disease spreads fast in the winter. We have also made sure that village cattle have been vaccinated. We have been keeping a strict vigil on cattle movement. Now, we have to wait and watch,” he added.

Institute of Animal Health & Veterinary Biologicals director Renuka Prasad said the disease, which spreads through saliva discharge, can take two forms — pneumonia and intestinal. Unvaccinated animals can die within a week.

The initial signs of the disease are general dullness, a reluctance to move and high temperature. Then salivation and nasal discharge appear and edematous swellings are seen in the throat, which spread to the rest of the body. Visible mucous membranes are congested and respiratory distress is soon followed by collapse. Recovery is rare. The animal dies within 3 to 36 hours.

According to Professor R Sukumar — world-renowned elephant expert and director of Centre for Ecological Sciences at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore — this bacterial disease spreads through direct contact, contaminated food and water. 

The latest crisis for the Karnataka Forest Department comes in the wake of a spate of tiger deaths at Bannerghatta National Park near Bangalore.

Article at the following link:
http://www.dailypioneer.com/307919/Epidemic-kills-six-K%E2%80%99taka-TN-elephants-in-20-days.html