Electric fences lead to Elephants death!
Webindia123
March 17, 2005

The world famous Jim Corbett National Park suffered a major loss when the 
park lost one of its Elephants after it was electrocuted.

The elephant was killed due to electrocution on the outskirts of the 
national park.

The elephants from the park venture out to the nearby fields, adjoining the 
national park, and at times destroy the crops of the villagers. This led to 
certain villagers putting up electrified fences to prevent the elephants 
from venturing into and destroying their crops and fields. These fences are 
usually linked upto the high tension wires, which means that any contact 
with them leads to instant death due to electrocution.

The field where this elephant died belonged to one Khuttu Singh. Singh was 
earlier advised by the forest officials to not to lay electrified fencing, 
but he never paid heed to their request.

The wire used was a thin wire, which was not easy to be seen. The elephant 
strayed into Khuttu's field at night and could not see the high-tension 
electric wire. The trunk of the elephant came in contact with the wire, 
which led to the death of the animal, explained the divisional forest 
officer, S.S. Rasaily.

"This incident happened in the western forest region, near the Nampukhra 
range, in gobipura village. This land is attached to our range. For many 
days we were getting information about elephants straying into these parts 
and our staff was repeatedly monitoring the area. So we came to know that 
the owner of the field, Khuttu Singh, had laid down wires here, which was 
carrying electricity. We even tried to convince him, not to do such a thing. 
Three days back also our staff came here and removed these wires, but during 
the night these wires were relayed. And, in the night time these elephants 
came here and got electrocuted", he added.

The landowner, Khuttu Singh, is now being charged under the Wildlife 
Protection Act of 1972, and is set to be prosecuted soon.