Two jumbos electrocuted in Telkoi forest range (India)
Times of India
January 28, 2011

KEONJHAR: Two female wild elephants were found dead in the Telkoi forest range area in Keonjhar district on Wednesday. The carcasses were seized and buried after post-mortem. The pachyderms were electrocuted to death early on Wednesday morning after coming in contact with the 11 kv Telkoi-Padang-Kalihata transmission line. The incident took place near village Budha amba about 70 km from here, when a herd of about 30 elephants were passing near the line. One of the tuskers demolished an electric pillar and got electrocuted.

One of the elephants was 30 years old and 8 feet and 2 inches tall while the other was 22 years old and 7 feet and six inches tall. One of them got a head injury while the other had its trunk wounded.

Regional CCF of Rourkela Subhas Chandra Swain, DFO Sarat Kumar Mohanty, superintendent engineer of Nesco Niramal Das, ACF Keonjhar Soumyak Samantra went to the spot immediately after receiving information about the incident.

Sources said power supply in Telkoi forest range area was cut off every day from ten pm to six am to avoid accident due to electric shocks since last August. Still, such accidents continue to happen. Earlier in July 31, three jumbos were electrocuted to death in Telkoi forest range area. During the last 11 years 25 elephants have died in the district due to electrocution.

Following the incident, two employees of Nesco were arrested by the forest department under section 9 (hunting), 52 (abetment to hunting) and 58 (negligence) of wild life protection act-1972 and sent to court on Thursday. They were identified as S Mohanty, junior engineer and Indramani Biswal, a line man of telkoi. Employees of Nesco protested against the arrest by wearing black badges. They said there was no proper investigation into the matter and the arrests were unjustified because they were not responsible for the establishment of electric poles or drawing of electric wires. 

Article at the following link:
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhubaneswar/Two-jumbos-electrocuted-in-Telkoi-forest-range/articleshow/7375177.cms