Poachers strike in Andhiyur, kill jumbo for tusks (India)
Times of India
February 8,2011

COIMBATORE: A tusker, estimated to be of 18 years age, was found dead with bullet wounds in Ennamangalam area of Andhiyur forests. Though the animal was killed 10 days ago, the body was spotted only on Sunday. This is the second elephant to be killed by poachers in the last two months.

After the killing of Veerappan, who is said have gunned down at least 100 elephants, there was a brief lull in poaching activities in the jungles that stretch from Sathyamangalam to Erode. That changed in 2007 when two tuskers were shot dead in Sathyamangalam forests. Since then, poachers have killed seven elephants.

Nearly 1,250 elephants are estimated to roam the Erode-Sathyamangalam forests spread over 2000 sq km. Poachers have periodically targeted the tusker population here.

"It is a cause for concern. We have formed special teams to nab the poachers. We will certainly step up vigil to protect the elephants," A Arun, conservator of forests (Erode district), told TOI.

Just about a year ago, poachers had killed a 14-year-old elephant in the Ennamangalam area of the Andhiyur forests. Forest officials say the jungles of western Tamil Nadu are too vast and they have few personnel to guard these stretches. "For the Ennamangalam beat spread over 3,000 hectares, we have just one forest guard and a watcher. How can the two of them keep away poachers from such vast jungles?" asks a forest department official. "The Andhiyur forest range has to be bifurcated," he adds.

The Sathyamangalam forest division, which spans 1,450 sq km, has just five forest ranges while the 320 sq km Mudumalai sanctuary too has just as many ranges. "The huge forest ranges should be divided and additional personnel should be posted," says a wildlife activist in Sathyamangalam. In the last four years, four young elephants have been killed in the Sathyamangalam jungles alone.

Article at the following link:
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Poachers-strike-in-Andhiyur-kill-jumbo-for-tusks/articleshow/7448106.cms