Three jumbos poisoned in Simlipal (India)
Times of India
February 14, 2011

BHUBANESWAR: In yet another incident of mass killing of elephants, Simlipal forest on Monday reported the death of three jumbos, all suspected to have been poisoned.

This was the first mass murder of elephants in the Simlipal tiger reserve (STR) area this year. In April 2010, 10 elephants were found dead. Officially, the number was however put at seven. The April massacre had forced the Union ministry of environment and forest to send an expert team for a field study, which later made a series of recommendations to avoid recurrence of such incidents.

Forest department sources said the bodies of the three animals were found within a radius of 200 meters close to Gopinathpur and Andharitota villages, both located inside the forest area. "We have not yet received the post-mortem reports, but they were suspected to have been poisoned," STR field director H S Upadhyaya said. He said forest officials had been pressed into combing the area in search of the culprits. "All the three elephants are females," he pointed out. "When we reached the spot, blood was oozing from the nostrils of the animals. There was no visible injury marks in the bodies. We suspect they may have died in the last 24 to 36 hours," Upadhyaya said. "All the elephants were healthy, and believed to be below 15 years," he added.

Sources said the poisoning was the handiwork of poachers. Though authorities claim Simlipal has about 400 elephants, the actual number could be less than 150, of whom nearly a dozen are males. "The poachers possibly targeted the tuskers, but the females ate the poisoned food stuff kept on the animal route," said an official. "Simlipal has become a poachers' paradise. Every day hundreds of people enter the forest with guns, bows and arrows and go on killing the animals. On Monday, the forest officials upon my frantic phone calls intercepted a group of nearly 400 poachers at Kulipal near Jenabil. The poachers had planned to stay in the forest for the night before launching mass killings on Tuesday," said Bhanumitra Acharya, an environmentalist, who was instrumental in discovering the April killings of elephants. "There is no protection worth the name put in place. If the present trend continues, Simlipal could completely lose its animal population soon," he added. 

Article at the following link:
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhubaneswar/Three-jumbos-poisoned-in-Simlipal/articleshow/7497848.cms