Avenging jumbos raid villages after death of a member (India)
Naresh Chandra Pattanayak, Times of India
Jul 26, 2011

KEONJHAR: Poachers' gain is villagers' loss. Failing to distinguish between the fault lines in human civilization, a herd of wild elephants have swung into revenge mode, attacking houses of villagers in the mining-dominated Champua forest range area of Keonjhar district, after poachers killed a male member of the pack.

Villagers of about 27 hamlets surrounding the Kalikaprasad reserve forest area under Champua forest range have been spending sleepless nights since the past few days due to the elephant menace. Two herds of 16 elephants have been creating havoc in the area, particularly a rampaging violent female elephant in the group damaging houses after the death of a male tusker by poachers in neighbouring Jharkhand.

According to forest department sources, the elephants moving in the area had not caused any damage before the fateful night of July 11 when the male elephant was killed by a poisoned jackfruit in Noamundi forest range of West Singhbhum forest division of Jharkhand by poachers, who then looted its tusks. From that day onwards, the female elephant strayed across the Baitarani river to Champua forest range area of Orissa with her herd and has been causing panic among the villagers.

In the last 15 days the elephant herd has destroyed 54 houses in Champua forest range, most affected being the villages of Kainta, Sridhrapur, Rajia, Indraprastha and Daduan. Many families in the region have been rendered homeless and are spending scary nights under trees or temporary sheds.

The herd is taking shelter in the dense cover of the Kalikaprasad reserve forest, spreading over an area of about 1,200 hectors in Champua subdivision, said Champua forest range officer, R A Mishra. "The elephant group takes shelter in the reserve forest during the day and come out from the forest in the night to raid villages," he said. The forest connects to the Seranda reserve forests of Jharkhand. Elephant herds frequenting this route often cross the state borders via Baitarani river.

"Two elephant drive forces with seven forest officials each in two vehicles have been deployed in the area to check the menace. Crackers and lights have also been distributed to the villagers," Mishra said.

"We have deployed a forest team to track the elephant herd and to keep them away from the human habitat. We have also paid compensation of about Rs 2 lakh to the victims' families for house damage," said Keonjhar DFO S K Mohanty.

It may be mentioned here that forest covers of Joda, Bamebari and Barbil areas of the subdivision have been steadily destroyed due to rampant mining operations in the region. Thousands of acres of dense forests have been destroyed to accommodate hundreds of mining operations in this subdivision in the past few years.

Twenty-two houses were also damaged in the area last year by an elephant herd.

Article at the following link:
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhubaneswar/CCIS-2507-Avenging-jumbos-raid-villages-after-death-of-a-member/articleshow/9363987.cms