Elephant dies from injuries (Thailand)
Bangkok Post
June 7, 2012

A 50-year-old wild elephant has died from its injuries after it was shot by poachers in a forest near the Salak Phra Wildlife Sanctuary in Kanchanaburi's Bo Phloi district on Sunday night.

A team of veterinarians had been trying to save the elephant's life but it finally died from infections associated with its injuries yesterday morning.

Manot Yindee, assistant dean of the veterinary faculty at Mahidol University's Kanchanaburi campus, said veterinarians will cut open and examine the female elephant's right ankle, which sustained serious gunshot wounds.

He said the pain from the wounds made the animal lose its appetite, worsening its condition.

Dr Manot said the elephant will be buried and monks will be asked to perform funeral rites for it.

Forestry officials of the wildlife sanctuary yesterday filed a complaint asking Bo Phloi district police to find the poachers who killed the elephant.

They also gave the police a bullet retrieved from one of the several wounds on the animal's leg as evidence.

Thirapat Prayoonsit, deputy director-general of the Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation, said more than 4,000 wild elephants live in 61 protected forest areas nationwide.

Wild elephants had raided farmland and fruit orchards at the edge of national parks after their food supplies in the forests ran out, sparking conflicts between humans and the animals, Mr Thirapat said.

Mr Thirapat said rangers will try to keep the animals inside forests to prevent confrontations between farmers and wild elephants.

The measures include erecting electric fences, digging large networks of ditches to stop them crossing into farming land and making noises to scare them back into the forest.

Farmers whose farmland and orchards are damaged by elephants will receive compensation from the elephant food fund set up by the department, he said.
Article at the following link:
http://www.bangkokpost.com/news/local/296900/elephant-dies-from-injuries