Jumbos wreak havoc after calf death (India)
By Debajyoti Chakraborty, Times of India 
December 6, 2012

PURULIA: Unable to bear the death of the youngest member of their group, a herd of 21 Dalma elephants wreaked havoc in Jhaldah subdivision on Tuesday night. Luckily, there was no loss of life, but farmer Ruidas Singh Mura sustained minor injuries. The jumbos trampled crops and destroyed 10 to 12 acres of land spread over three villages.

It may be recalled that a 16-day-old elephant calf had died on Sunday after it fell into an irrigation well while crossing a paddy field in Durgo village. The mother elephant tried to rescue the calf, but also fell into the well. Though the foresters managed to save the mother on Monday, the calf had already died by then.

Since the last two to three days, the angry mother elephant and the other members of the herd have been roaming in Bondi village, which is about five kilometres away from Durgo. On Wednesday, the bereaved mother hurled farmer Ruidas Singh Mura, who was busy working in the fields, in the air. Mura, a resident of Pahardih village of Baghmundi, has suffered some bruises, but managed to escape the animal's wrath by hiding in a nearby bush.

Forest officials said that even on Monday, the mother had been trumpeting hard and refused to leave the spot without catching a glimpse of the calf. It was very difficult to drive her away and it was only after the elephant left that they could bring out the calf's body and bury it.

Locals said that the herd went on the rampage in Bondih, Joruadih and Ranidih. Talking to TOI, Manik Roy, ranger of Jhaldah, said that the herd was roaming near the Ghoshra Hills on the Jhaldah - Baghmundi border.

"We are keeping an eye on the herd and hope the mother elephant will calm down as days pass by," he said, adding that the villagers will be given compensation according to government norms.

A herd of about 21 Dalma elephants, who have been roaming here since middle od September has wrecked havoc of crops and destroyed about ten to 12 acres of land spread over three villages in Jhaldhah sub divison since last night. On Last Sunday, a 15 to 20 day old elephant calf fall into a irrigation well in Durgo village and his mother also jumped to save him. But the calf died and the forest officials helped the mother to jump out and pushed back her along with the rest of the herd.

Since the past few days the angry mother elephant and the other members of the herd has been roaming in the Bondi village area, which is about five kilometres awy from Durgo village. Near Bondi village, the angry mother threw a farmer in the air, Ruidas Singh Mura who was working in the agricultural field. Ruidas, a resident of pahardih village in nearby Baghmundi just managed to escape by hiding in a nearby bush.

Then the herd wrecked havoc and damaged crops in Bondih, Joruadih and Ranidih villages. Talking to the TOI, Manik Roy, ranger of Jhaldah said that at present the herd is roaming near the Ghoshra Hills at the Jhaldah - baghmundi border. " We are keeping an eye on the herd and hope that slowly the mother elephant will calm down by passing of days and behave normally,"he added. He said that the villagers will get compensation according to government norms.

Article at the following link:
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kolkata/Jumbos-wreak-havoc-after-calf-death/articleshow/17498879.cms

