Tuskers wreak havoc in Raigarh (India)

Rashmi Drolia, Times of India

September 12, 2013



RAIPUR: Elephant menace continues unabated in Raigarh, creating trouble for the people in the region. In yet other incident of elephant attack, a herd of tuskers, nearly 50, polished off crops worth lakhs on Tuesday night in the Junwani area of district.



Blaming the forest department for its slackness and inefficiency, locals alleged that although officials promise to compensate the loss, there are many villagers still, who have been waiting for the compensation for the past two years. Number of tuskers has shot up to 75 in this region. Dharamjaigarh block is the most affected place, reporting incidents of  elephant attack almost everyday. Sajal Kumar, a local activist told TOI that people from at least 30 villages will hold a protest on September 16 in front of the forest department's office. "More than 1,000 people are expected to hold protest against the forest officials for not taking appropriate steps to prevent elephant attack incidents. We plan to continue the protest till the department takes a significant effort in this regard," Sajal said.



He alleged that parts of northern Chhattisgarh face human-elephant conflict mainly because the jumbo lands have been declared as coal blocks and are being allocated to industrialists. "Hence, the elephants come towards villages in search of food and shelter and create havoc here. But, in spite of elephants being a threat, no measures are being taken to safeguard them. All our complaints go unheard ," he said.



Elephant electrocuted: An elephant was electrocuted at Gharghoda in Amlidih. This is third death of elephant in last three months.



Forest officials said that the elephant died due to a high-tension wire was lying near it. Poachers lay current wires to trap elephants while few locals lay wires for self-protection. Officials said that there are at least 200 elephants in the region that are creating problems for the locals.


