Young Elephant Killed for Ivory in Mondolkiri
By Sek Odom, The Cambodia Daily
October 8, 2014

An adolescent elephant was killed and stripped of its ivory inside
Mondolkiri province’s Phnom Prich Wildlife Sanctuary, according to
environmental officials, who discovered the endangered animal on Friday.

The male Asian elephant, estimated to be about 10 years old, was discovered
with at least one bullet wound in its head and both of its tusks removed.

Two adult elephants and one infant were found slaughtered by poachers in
the same area in October last year.

Chhit Sophal, director of the provincial environment department, said the
animal was likely killed three or four days earlier, and that a lack of
vigilance by Environment Ministry officials in charge of the supposedly
protected area was     to blame.

“If the director of Phnom Prich works on this case, there will be no
solution, and I will have to go there directly with my own officials to do
an investigation,” Mr. Sophal said, referring to the sanctuary’s director,
Samrang Dyvichet.

Mr. Sophal cited the ongoing poaching of gaur and trade in endangered
pangolin as the other failures of authorities overseeing the sanctuary. He
said that while it was clear that the elephant had died at the hands of a
hunter, he would return to Mondolkiri to conduct an autopsy.

“We will ask the WWF [World Wide Fund for Nature] for permission to bury
the dead elephant,” he added.

Mr. Dyvichet confirmed his subordinates were called to inspect the elephant
corpse by a group of ethnic Bunong collecting vines inside the
225,000-hectare sanctuary.

Mr. Dyvichet also defended the competence of his office, saying that it was
impossible to patrol the entire sanctuary for poachers.

“We can’t even keep an eye on all the animals in our district, even though
our officials patrol often, so how can we patrol the entire forest?” he
said. “We will ask the WWF to put a camera [trap] in that area; then it
will be easy to arrest any hunters,” he said.

Mr. Dyvichet said between 120 and 170 elephants remained in the protected
area.