Foul play stench in death of two more elephants (India)
Pinak Priya Bhattacharya,Times of India
Oct 22, 2014

READ MORE Moraghat Forest|Kolabari|Elephant Electrocution|Elephant
Death|Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary

JALPAIGURI: Two more jumbos — a tusker and a pregnant female — were killed
in North Bengal on Tuesday. While the tusker was probably poisoned, the
female, the foresters suspect, was electrocuted.

Only three days back, two pachyderms were electrocuted in the region.

The bodies of the elephants were found in two different forest tracts in
Dooars — at Panjhora near Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary and at Kolabari
near Moraghat forest in Banerhat. "The female, whose carcass was found in a
paddy field at Panjhora, was probably electrocuted. Primary investigation
confirmed that it was in advance stage of pregnancy," said a forest
official.

The other elephant was a sub-adult tusker. Its body too was found in a
paddy field at Kolabari near Moraghat forest. When the foresters checked on
the body, they found blood stains in its trunk which indicated that the
animal might have been poisoned.

The foresters are not ready to say anything about the cause of the death of
the elephants until the post mortem is done.

"The actual reason of death can only be known after post mortem," a senior
forester said.

Three days ago, a tusker and a female were found dead in a paddy field at
Rakamjot Bustee near Kolabari forest at Naxalbari.

Though the forest department had lodged an FIR against two villagers, they
are still absconding.

"While one elephant was electrocuted after its trunk entangled in the
wires, the other one died after its tail mired in the wires. This is very
unfortunate and should not have happened," said divisional forest officer
of Kurseong Buddhi Rajshiva.
Stay updated on the go with The Times of India’s mobile apps. Click here to
download it for your device.

http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/City/Kolkata/Foul-play-stench-in-death-of-two-more-elephants/articleshow/44902735.cms