Wild elephant electrocuted in Sivagiri forest rangebreach (India)
From:
"Melissa Groo" <melgroo@hotmail.com>
Date:
3/15/2006, 5:51 AM

Wild elephant electrocuted in Sivagiri forest range
P. Oppili, The Hindu
March 14, 2006

CHENNAI: A wild elephant was electrocuted in the Sivagiri forest range in Tirunelveli district when it came into contact with an illegal electric fence put up by farmers. Forest officials believe the incident happened last week.

Six persons, including three brothers who owned the farm, allegedly burnt the carcass after pouring petrol on it. They did not intimate the authorities. The remains were then sprayed in a nearby field, which was ploughed, the officials said.

They said the animal had strayed into a sugarcane field in Tirumalapuram village. The landowners had been illegally drawing power for the fence. On information, authorities visited the village and secured two labourers, V. Chinnadurai and K. Madasamy. The officials are on the lookout for the landowners as well as a tractor driver. The officials have recovered a portion of the burnt trunk, a tooth and viscera from the spot. An examination of the parts with the help of a veterinarian established that the carcass was burnt, they said.

M.G. Rao, Conservator of Forests, Tirunelveli, said a special team headed by Forest Range Officer of Sankarankoil, was formed to probe the incident.

To deter wild animals from straying into agriculture fields, the department put up a solar-powered fence with 12 volts of supply. This year the fence would be put up along the forest boundary, covering a distance of two km in the Sivagiri Range. The district administration also planned to put up a 10-km fence in the area, Mr. Rao said.

Last year, two elephants were electrocuted in the Tirunelveli Forests division, say officials. One of them was buried in the Devipatnam area by the landlord. In the other incident, the carcass was pushed into a well, they said.

Article at the following link:
http://www.hindu.com/2006/03/15/stories/2006031511270100.htm


