Live Wires Take heavy Toll on Elephants (India)
By Biranchi Seth, Express News
November 2014

DHENKANAL:  The rise in number of elephant deaths under Dhenkanal forest
division has left forest officials worried. Seven elephants have died in
Dhenkanal so far this year.

On November 21, an adult tusker got electrocuted at Alusingh village under
Hindol forest range after getting entangled in live wires. The tusker, aged
about 30, was feeding on the crop in a paddy field when it came in contact
with the live wire, said DFO, Pradipta Kumar Sahu. The live wire was
allegedly drawn by a farmer from a low transmission line in the paddy field
for domestic use.

A day later, an elephant calf was found dead under similar circumstances in
Nuakiari village under Hindol forest range.

Locals, however, said they are forced to lay live wires in their
agricultural fields as elephants from the nearby forest frequently destroy
their crops. Although elephant-proof trenches have been dug up in Baabandha
area of Hindol, these are of little help in preventing the animals from
straying into human habitations.

In fact, in the last three years, four elephants have been electrocuted in
Hindol forest range and one in Sadangi forest range. Environmentalists said
electrocution continues to be a primary cause behind elephant deaths in
Dhenkanal, courtesy lack of coordination between the officials of the
Forest department and the Central Electricity Supply Utility (CESU). On the
other hand, forest authorities blamed CESU officials for neglect resulting
in the death of the elephants. They said although several reminders have
been sent to CESU officials to fix the sagging power lines, there has been
no positive response so far.

Poaching too has become rampant in the last few years. Sources said four
elephants have been killed by poachers in four years in the forests
bordering Dhenkanal-Cuttack and Dhenkanal-Keonjhar regions.

In yet another step to check unnatural deaths of elephants, the Dhenkanal
Forest Division has urged the East Coast Railway (ECoR) to reduce the speed
of trains running on Dhenkanal-Angul route.

The DFO said the ECoR authorities have been requested to reduce speed of
the trains from Sadashivpur station to Hindol Road railway station between
6 pm and 6 am every day as elephants use this route to return to the forest
after feeding on crops in the paddy fields.

http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/odisha/2014/11/27/Live-Wires-Take-heavy-Toll-on-Elephants/article2543336.ece