When humans and elephants collide (China)
Xinhua/ECNS
July 24, 2015

The war between humans and elephants rages in southwest China's Yunnan
Province.

This year alone, three people have been killed by wild elephants there, and
three elephants are known to have been killed by either pesticides or
gunshot.

A villager from Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture, a popular tourist
destination where elephants feature prominently on any itinerary, was
detained by police on Sunday for killing a pregnant wild elephant. Named by
police as Wang, the villager opened fire with a homemade gun on a group of
wild elephants that had invaded his land. A female elephant weighing more
than 3 tonnes was later found dead in Wang's fish pond with a bullet in her
head. The cow was carrying a 99-kilogram male calf and was almost ready to
give birth.

On June 26, two immature bull elephants were found dead with blood oozing
from their mouth, trunk and anus. Police found pesticides in the stomaches
of both and have not ruled out the possibility that they were poisoned by
farmers. As many as 16 wild elephants were seen in the area at the end of
November and various incidents have since been reported.

Asian elephants are an endangered species and protected in China. About 250
to 300 roam Xishuangbanna and other parts of south Yunnan. Fragmented
habitat means they often intrude into villages, damage crops and even
attack humans.

FOOTPRINTS IN THE BUTTER

A villager died after being attacked while working in his fields in June.
His wife narrowly escaped death thanks to a shed that collapsed, shielding
her from further attacks. There have been at least three elephant attacks
in the vicinity this year. Two women died from such attacks in the area in
2012 and 2013.

Heavily forested Simao District is an ideal habitat for elephants. About 60
of them are known to roam the district. Six people have died there and nine
have been injured in elephant attacks since 1999. Farmers are afraid to
harvest their crops. Students have nerve-racking trips to school and local
people go less frequently to the market. Some cannot even sleep in their
own houses for fear that hungry pachyderms will break in and raid their
larders.

The number of wild elephants is on the rise, which is certainly a good
thing, but they pillage or trample crops, tear down trees and houses and
are a very real threat to people's lives.

Simao forestry bureau attributed 33 deaths and 165 injuries to wild
animals, mostly elephants, from 1991 to 2010. In the whole province, 1,324
deaths and about 390 million yuan (63.7 million U.S. dollars) of losses
have been blamed on wild animals over the past decade. Such tragedies will
become more frequent if the central government campaign to improve the
environment is successful and elephant numbers increase.

PACHYDERM PICNICS AND PREMIUMS

An adult elephant eats up to 300 kilograms of food each day and drinks a
large amount of water. It walks dozens of kilometers while foraging.

Chen Mingyong, an elephant expert with Yunnan University, believes that
conservation corridors are key to resolving the conflict between man and
beast. Linking the fragmented habitat with protected corridors will reduce
the overlapping space inhabited by both humans and elephants.

Food source bases where bamboo and bananas are grown specifically for the
elephants will also help. Most of the harm done comes from the elephants'
endless search for food.

Simao government spent over 600,000 yuan last year on an "elephant canteen"
that includes a banana garden, a bamboo forest and a pool. The provincial
government faces mounting compensation bills for damage caused by the
protected animals. The annual cost can run to 10 million yuan.

In 2009, Yunnan contracted China Pacific Insurance Co. to insure crops,
property and lives in some regions. The government pays the premiums and
the insurers investigate and compensate people when animals cause trouble.

Li Laoxiao has tried everything to drive the elephants away from his
plantation, but to very little avail. "Now I just let them eat. I get 15
yuan for each damaged rubber tree, and 10 yuan for a banana tree."

The commercial mechanism is clearly more effective. Compensation is higher
and paid more quickly, but rumbling discontent persists. In November, 114
villagers from nine villages in Simao petitioned for better protection and
higher compensation.

Yang Zhengrong of the insurers' Yunnan branch told Xinhua that the company
paid over 81 million yuan in compensation from 2010 to 2013 but received
less than 48 million yuan in premiums.

"The compensation mechanism needs to be improved. It is not sustainable in
the long run," Yang said.