Doctors amputate elephant tusk allegedly sawed by poachers in Vietnam
reserve
Tuoitrenews
July 17, 2015

See link for photos

A 20-year-old elephant in Vietnam’s Yok Don National Park had its right
tusk amputated on Thursday due to an injury caused by unidentified
poachers, the park management said the same day.

The wound on the animal, Thoong Ngan, was caused by poachers who allegedly
used a saw to attempt to cut off the tusk to steal it two days earlier,
said Do Quang Tung, director of the park, located in Buon Don District of
the Central Highlands province of Dak Lak.

The amputation was completed in the afternoon after a group of experts
agreed that the tusk should be removed to save the animal from a possible
dangerous infection, Tung said.

The experts from the park, the Ho Chi Minh City-based Saigon Zoo and
Botanical Garden, the Netherlands’s Rotterdam Zoo, and the Animal Asia
Foundation discussed treatment for the injured elephant.

Veterinary surgeons gave Thoong Ngan, 20 years old, an anesthetic and then
cut off its injured tusk, Tung said.

Thoong Ngan is seen after its right tusk was severed on July 16, 2015.
Photo: Tuoi Tre

“At 5:30 pm, the cutting was completed and the elephant recovered after the
anesthetic’s effect wore off,” Tung added.

Before the operation, the park management had conducted ceremonial rituals
according to the customs of the Ede minority people.

Poachers’ attack

Early Tuesday morning, Thoong Ngan, with a chain around its legs, was
released to Yok Don National Park to search for food, Y Vi Xien, a mahout
who directly manages the elephant, said.

At 8:00 am the same day, Xien found the animal stuck between two large
trees by a strange chain, with its right tusk cut at a depth of two-thirds
of its width, probably with a saw, he said.

The removed tusk of Thoong Ngan. Photo: Tuoi Tre

Vien assumed that the animal had become stuck on the trunk of one of the
trees while it was searching for food, and unidentified poachers managed to
drive the animal into the space between that tree and another, Xien said.

The poachers then used another chain to fix the animal between the trees
and later used a saw to cut its right tusk, the mahout guessed.

It is believed that the poachers later fled from the scene out of fear when
the elephant bellowed in pain, as the saw touched the marrow inside its
tusk, Xien said.

Before suffering the incident, Thoong Ngan was used to carry tourists every
day, he added.

Thoong Ngan uses its proboscis to touch the wound on its tusk before the
ivory was  amputated on July 16, 2015. Photo: Tuoi Tre

No culprits found

Since 2009, at least six elephants in Dak Lak have been killed for their
tusks and other organs, but authorities have yet to identify any culprits,
Yok Don National Park director Tung said.

The park now has four elephants, of which only Thoong Ngan and another
still have their tusks, which are considered the most beautiful in Vietnam,
he said.

The director added that the purported sawing of the tusk is the first such
incident to have ever happened in the park.

Police in Buon Don District are looking into the assault.