Jumbos at receiving end with no let up in conflict (Sri Lanka)
By Kumudini Hettiarachchi, The Sunday Times
September 20, 2015

They are maligned, hooted, jeered, taunted and shouted at, ‘showered’ with
terrifying fire-crackers and spattered with buckshot leaving festering
wounds which make them suffer in slow agony.

These days, after a series of episodes in the tragic human-elephant
conflict (HEC), these majestic animals are getting deeper and deeper into
the bad books of people.

Emotion aside, there is a need to look at these episodes rationally, and
take a lesson from them so that people unwittingly do not become the
triggers of the HEC, was the view of many environmentalists.

“It is vital for anyone living or working in areas where wild elephants
roam to think about the danger that could be posed by a sudden face-to-face
meeting with them,” stresses the Chairman of the Centre for Conservation
and Research (CCR), Dr. Prithiviraj Fernando, a view echoed by many others.

DWC facing criticism amidst staff shortagesIn defence of the DWC which is
troubled by staff shortages and lack of facilities, amidst which it faces
accusations of inaction, Dr. Prithiviraj Fernando underscores the fact that
the HEC can take place at anytime and anywhere across the country, wherever
there are people and elephants.
“It would be impossible for the DWC to be present in all those places.
There are a few million people living in elephant country and the DWC
cannot be expected to play the role of ‘guardian’ to all of them,” he says,
emphasising that it is important for people to take necessary precautions
to avoid meeting elephants.If accidentally, someone sees an elephant on a
path or even a road, get off the road immediately, as no human is a match
for an elephant, is Dr. Fernando’s advice.

“An elephant weighs a couple of thousand kilos and we puny humans about
50-60 kilos. We simply cannot challenge an elephant physically. So if you
see an elephant ahead of you, don’t try to get closer to have a better look
at it.

Don’t try to stand up and shout to scare away the creature. Just bide your
time until the elephant is well away from the area, even if you have to
cancel whatever you are going for, as your life is worth more than anything
else.”

He certainly knows what he is talking about because as a scientist and
researcher his work revolves closely around elephants across Sri Lanka as
well as other countries which are home to elephants.

Check out the pattern whenever, sadly, a person gets killed in a face-off
with a wild elephant, he urges, explaining that “we need to learn lessons
from these incidents”.

According to Dr. Fernando anyone who is living in areas with elephants,
should try as far as possible to avoid coming into contact with them.

Unless absolutely necessary like in instances of illness or emergencies,
people should not be out of their homes at night on foot when they know
elephants are about. Even in an emergency requiring night travel, being on
foot or on a motorcycle or bicycle should be a “no, no” if possible, with a
better option being a vehicle such as a van.

For all those living in such areas, he suggests that if they are stepping
out of their homes at night, they should first flash a torch around to see
whether there are elephants around, as otherwise their very lives could be
in danger if they suddenly come across these pachyderms.

When asked by the Sunday Times of numerous instances of wild elephants
being accused of attacking homes, Dr. Fernando talks of the sad reality of
farmers storing paddy and other grain in their homes.

“Elephants have a strong sense of smell and know when paddy is stored
within. That’s when they raid not only villages but also homes.This is why
farmers eking out a living through cultivations in areas where there are
elephants need to sell off their harvests from the field, without storing
it in their homes until they can get a better price,” he says, adding that
regrettably, it is a toss-up between keeping the paddy in their homes to
get more money and thus facing the major risks of elephants damaging or
toppling their homes and causing injury or death or selling off the harvest
from the fields themselves. What needs to be asked is whether the risk is
worth to bring the paddy home, which acts as a lure for elephants.

Dr. Fernando gets into the pathetic ‘shoes’ of wild elephants to explain
their unenviable plight. Through unplanned development, people have made
massive inroads and encroached into elephant-land.

Then when wild elephants come into what was once their territory but are
now villages, huge amounts of fire-crackers are sent in volleys to get rid
of them. Gradually the creatures get immune or habituated to fire-crackers
and turn marauders.

“The moment a wild elephant breaks a home or a person gets killed, the
Department of Wildlife Conservation (DWC) is called in. The DWC too is
trapped between the anger and the frustration of the villagers and its duty
to protect wild elephants.

Facing the wrath of the villagers, in a bid to chase away the elephants,
the DWC has no option but to flash torches and use buckshot (shotguns with
SG cartridges) to make the elephants flee,” he says.

Yes, the injured elephants may leave that particular area in the hail of
buckshot but what follows is that the link between humans, buckshot, injury
and pain, get imprinted in their minds, the Sunday Times learns.

“Naturally, these elephants become very aggressive and turn killers and the
next time they meet a humble villager along a lonely path or someone
flashes a torch at them, the elephant’s psyche connects that person with
someone wielding a gun, someone who will hurt them.

That is a natural reaction and as defensive behaviour, such elephants will
invariably attack the person, who becomes an innocent victim, adding to the
statistics of the HEC,” says Dr. Fernando.

This elephant-researcher’s explanation is logical and rational – “Remember
that elephants are wild animals. They can be aggressive and they are
unpredictable. Treat them with respect.”

Incidents at hotspotHere are a few incidents of the Human Elephant Conflict
(HEC) this year in the hotspot of the Galgamuwa area in the Kurunegala
District.
Human tragedies:
• August –
A 64-year-old man is killed by a wild elephant when walking along a jungle
path in the night at Moragaswewa-Konwewa.
• May –
A 79-year-old man is killed in his home-garden at dawn in Mottapoththewa.
For several days he had spread a stock of paddy for drying in the open
verandah of his home and on several nights it had been stolen. That fateful
night, when he heard a noise, assuming that the thieves had returned, armed
with a ketta, he had come from the rear of his home, to be confronted by
two elephants feeding on the paddy.
A 35-year-old man is killed in Meegalewa, when a crowd goes to watch a wild
elephant which has come to the area in the evening.
• Early part of the year –
A 50-year-old man is killed while on his way to a coconut estate at
Kumbukkadawala-Polpithigama.
Wild elephant tragedies:
• September –
A 10-year-old cow-elephant is poisoned by people in the
Nanneriya-Andarawewa area.
• August –
A 30-year-old bull-elephant is shot dead by people in the
Mahawa-Habarathwewa area.
A four-year-old baby elephant is poisoned by people in the
Ratnadivulwewa-Ehetuwewa area.
A 40-year-old bull-elephant is electrocuted by people in the
Vikadenigama-Ehetuwewa area.
• July –
The decomposing body of an elephant is found in the Nahettikulama wewa area.
• January –
A bull-elephant is shot dead by people in the Wathupolagama-Mahawa area
A lactating cow-elephant is shot dead by people in the
Ehetuwewa-Medadenigama area. There is no trace of the baby she had been
feeding.