Jumbos under threat in Nayagarh (India, Odisha)
Here. Now
November 14 2015

Nayagarh: Deaths of four elephants over last five months have raised doubts
over the safety of pachyderms in the district.

The district has a rich forest cover with many wild animals living inside.
Lack of patrolling by forest officials has only emboldened the latter to
carry out their work with impunity.

Jumbos have become the most vulnerable of wild animals in the forest.
Poachers easily get into jungles and kill elephants. Locals alleged that
involvement of an inter-state racket could not be ruled out as poachers
kill elephants for their tusks and hide.  This has triggered wide-spread
resentment among wildlife enthusiast and elephant lovers.

Deaths of four elephants in five months have highlighted the inefficiency
of forest officials who do not bother to ensure security of wild animals in
the forests.

Two of the jumbo carcasses were recovered from Daspalla forest range while
the third was recovered from Nuagaon forest and the fourth one was
recovered from the reserve forest under Mahanadi wildlife division in the
district.  Forest officials, however, maintained silence on the issue and
have done nothing to arrest the trend.

In the first incident, decomposed carcass of a tusker was noticed from
Birigidi jungle under Daspalla forest range in Nayagarh forest division in
May. Locals had claimed the involvement of poachers in the killing. Even
though forest officials were informed about this they did not so much as
visit the spot. They forgot their role beyond recovering the carcass and
having a post-mortem done. On the contrary, they covered it up saying the
animal died because of sunstroke.

In the second incident, the carcass of a female elephant calf was recovered
and the forest officials claimed it occurred because of a fight between the
herd members. They buried it after a post-mortem.

The third incident was highlighted the most as three forest guards, two
foresters had been suspended and the Daspalla forest ranger was transferred
for trying to cover up an elephant death in Chadheyapalli reserve jungle in
June.  Locals noticed a dead elephant in Chadheyapalii reserve forest and
informed forest officials. The latter did not visit the spot or recover the
carcass. They tried to cover it up.

Actions were taken against them after complaints were filed before the
principal chief conservator of forests.

The fourth incident occurred August 31 when a female elephant was found
lying dead in Kandheinala jungle near Palba village under Nuagaon forest
range.  It was alleged that the elephant was shot dead by locals while it
tried to stray into the paddy field. Forest officials later claimed it died
due to infections.