Live Wires Take Heavy Toll on Elephants
The New Indian Express
October 25, 2015

BHUBANESWAR: For all its rhetoric on wildlife conservation, the State
Government has not been able to contain electrocution deaths of the jumbos.

Two female elephants were killed in Bargarh Forest Division on Friday
morning after they came in contact with a live wire in Junani village under
Ambabhana block. Locals had laid traps using electricity supply lines for
wild boars but the pachyderms walked into the farm field and paid with
their lives.

In the last two months, six elephants have died of electrocution in the
State. On October 12, a female elephant and her calf were killed by the
electricity supply lines in Gundlei, about 35 kms from Dhenkanal town.

In the last seven years, at least 69 elephants have  died by way of
electrocution - deliberate as well as accidental. During the period, about
40 elephants were poached while poisoning, another way of killing the
jumbos, claimed 15 lives. As many as 14 elephants died by train hits while
34 died in different accidents.

The fact remains that poaching does not kill more elephants in Odisha,
electrocution does. In absence of monitoring from the Energy Department
which is sitting pretty leaving the matters to distribution companies
(discoms), the vulnerability of the jumbos has grown.

Peeved with a sudden spurt in elephant electrocution deaths in the last two
months, the Wildlife Wing has decided to take up the matter with Principal
Chief Electrical Inspector who is mandated with overseeing maintenance of
the electricity infrastructure in the State.

“The Wildlife Wing has been holding monthly coordination meetings with the
discoms to apprise them of the problem areas which need attention but
infrastructure need to improve along with vigilance which needs more
responsiveness from the Department,” said a senior officer.

Two years back, the State Government had allocated Rs 21 crore for
improvement of electricity infrastructure in elephant corridors to heighten
safety but it has not worked much. Sources in the Wildlife Wing said CESU
jurisdiction remains a matter of concern.

Investigation into the Dhenkanal electrocution deaths revealed that the
local forest staff had spotted the sagging 11 kv line and informed the
Junior Engineer concerned but the latter took plea of a public holiday and
decided to correct the problem later. The outcome was tragic. In last seven
years, at least 438 elephants have died in Odisha.