Tusker Found Dead in Mayurbhanj (Baripada, India)
New Indian Express
December 10, 2015

BARIPADA: The carcass of yet another tusker was recovered in Mayurbhanj
district on Wednesday. This is the seventh elephant death in the district
in the last one month. The series of jumbo deaths has left the forest
officials and wildlife activists worried.

Receiving information, the forest personnel recovered the carcass of the
male elephant from a paddy field near Na’ana village under Gudgudia range
of Karanjia division. The spot is nearly 50 km from Karanjia divisional
office and 4 km from Odisha-Jharkhand border. Its tusks were, however,
intact.

Karanjia DFO Prasanna Kumar Behera said that the 25-year-old tusker’s body
was spotted on Tuesday evening. “It could not be recovered as a herd of
elephants stood guard by surrounding the carcass. Staff kept a watch on the
body in the night and recovered it after the herd left it in the morning,”
he said.

Meanwhile, a scientific team, veterinary surgeons and dog squad along with
senior forest officials visited the spot and collected samples for tests.
Post-mortem of the body would be conducted on Thursday.

Locals alleged that the wild tusker was poisoned to death and it is
suspected to be the handiwork of a well-organised gang of poachers from the
neighbouring State. “As the spot is close to Jharkhand border, the hands of
the poachers from the neighbouring State cannot be ruled out. The poachers
kill elephants by poisoning them through salt,” said wildlife activist
Vanoo Mitra Acharya.

The DFO, however, said that two packets of pesticides were traced by the
dog squad in close ranges of the spot. “We have sent the blood samples to
Bhubaneswar for tests. The report is awaited. We can come to the conclusion
once we get the report and autopsy is conducted,” he added.

Sources said this tusker was a part of the 35-member elephant herd from
Dalma wildlife sanctuary of Jharkhand which had strayed into Mayurbhanj 20
days back. On November 21, another tusker from the same herd was found dead
in Bijatala area under Rairangpur division and its tusks were removed.

Earlier, five elephants had been found dead in Mayurbhanj forests.

While a female elephant died after delivering a stillborn calf at Alakudar
under Kaliani beat in Gudgudia range of Karanjia division on November 23,
another female was found dead in Kaptipada area on November 25.