This is the sixth elephant to be electrocuted around Bandipur during the
current year

Yet another elephant was electrocuted on the outskirts of Bandipur National
Park, underlining the growing intensity of human-animal conflict on the
forest periphery in the current season.

The elephant came in contact with an electric fence, illegally drawn from
live wires, resulting in instant death on the farm of Bhogaiah at Haadnuru
village in the Hediyala range on Sunday.

The incident took place about half a km from the same spot where another
elephant was electrocuted recently at Haadnuru. A farmer Shivanna was
mauled to death by a tiger in the same village. The tiger was subsequently
shot dead. This is the sixth elephant to be electrocuted around Bandipur
during the current year, while as many as 15 elephants had died under
similar circumstances during 2014-15.

Honorary Wildlife Warden Naveen Kumar, who visited the spot, told The Hindu
that such conflicts were bound to escalate as crops on farms around forest
periphery were ready for harvest. The need of the hour was to take up
maintenance and repairs of the three-metre-deep Elephant Proof Trenches
along areas of high conflicts, especially around Hediyala, Nugu, Moleyuru
and Omkara ranges. “Apart from the trenches, the solar-powered fences
should also be repaired. An amount of Rs. 10 crore is required for the
repair, as the trenches around Bandipur are in bad shape due to inadequate
maintenance,” he added.

Besides, the two-metre-deep trenches cut around the forests earlier were
not insurmountable for the elephants. But wherever the depth of the
trenches was increased to three metres, it was found to be successful in
preventing the elephants from crossing over. The long-term solution was to
finish the first phase of the rail track fences, estimated to cost Rs. 40
crore for execution, which was held up for lack of funds. “Though the State
government has earmarked funds for rail track fencing as a permanent
solution and earmarked Rs. 230 crore towards it, the project is yet to get
started,” said Mr. Kumar.

An emergency meeting of senior Forest Department officials has been sought
on Monday to discuss the issue as it is feared that conflicts were bound to
escalate, Mr. Kumar added.