Elephant Dies Trying To Free Her Calf From Illegal Electric Fence In
Vellore (India)
Sam Daniel Stalin, NDTV
February 3, 2016

See link for photo
<http://www.ndtv.com/tamil-nadu-news/elephant-dies-trying-to-free-her-calf-from-illegal-electric-fence-in-vellore-1273385>

A 10-year-old elephant died trying to save her calf which was caught in an
electric fence in Tamil Nadu's Vellore district this morning. Both mother
and child were electrocuted.  The Assistant Conservator of Forests,
Mohammad Raffi  in Vellore said, "High voltage electricity on an illegal
electric fence put up by a private farm is responsible for this. This
technically comes under the Krishnagiri Forest Division.
We have informed our colleagues there. They will investigate."

No arrests have been made yet. Investigators are looking for the man who
had taken the land on lease.

A few days ago, a herd of three elephants including the two that were found
dead today was seen roaming in the area and local people had complained of
crop damage.

While solar electric fences with very low power supply to emit just pulses
that keep animals away, officials say the fence that killed the elephants
this morning was connected to high voltage power.

Sampath, President of the Velakkal Natham Panchayat, said, "(The)
authorities should ensure this does not repeat."

Elephant deaths due to illegal electric fences are treated on par with
poaching. Officials say it appeared the calf got stuck in the live fence
first. The mother tried to lift it and got electrocuted.

In January 2012, the Madras High Court had directed the state environment
and forests department to remove illegally erected solar and electric
fences in the elephant corridors. An appeal against the order was dismissed
by the Supreme Court. But, farmers continue to put up illegal fencing.

In Tamil Nadu electric fences kill more elephants than poachers. The
elephant is a protected animal under wildlife laws and included in other
species like the tiger and lion in Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection
Act.