Jumbo, Calf Fall Prey to Killer Wire (Cuttack, India)
The New Indian Express
March 21, 2016

See link for photo
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/odisha/Jumbo-Calf-Fall-Prey-to-Killer-Wire/2016/03/21/article3338118.ece>
.

In a heinous incident, two elephants comprising a mother and her calf were
electrocuted to death near a village at Choudwar under Cuttack Forest
division on Saturday night.

The mother and calf came in contact with live wire as they strayed into the
agricultural fields at Dihasahi village adjoining Athagarh forests. The
wire was drawn from Pahalibar village in Khuntuni and fixed to bamboo poles
around 50 acre of farmland.

According to Forest officials, the act was undertaken under the garb of
solar fencing to protect the crop land from jumbo incursions which has been
a menace in the region. Earlier, the Forest Department had supported
installation of solar fences to keep animals and livestock away from
agriculture land.

But in this case, the wire was found to have been drawn by hooking into the
high tension line and extended through a length of more than 700 metres.
The jumbos, apparently, tried to cross through at around 3 am and sustained
such strong shock that they succumbed on the spot.

In solar fences, the shock is delivered in pulses and stops after one jolt
which is enough to deter the animals. But here, the electricity flow was
continuous that resulted in death of the animals. What is of more concern
is that the wire was drawn without any technical understanding and hung in
low height. The elephants bore electrocution mark beneath the stomach.

While the Forest Department has lodged a case under Wildlife Protection Act
and started investigation, it is also set to seek assistance of electricity
supply company to ascertain where the line was hooked.

In another incident, a juvenile elephant was found dead at Majhipada
reserve forest under Tikarpada Range on Saturday night. The elephant, aged
four to five years, was apparently suffering from disease and had been
abandoned by the herd. It succumbed on Saturday. Its tiny tusks were found
in tact.

Though there are no signs of foul play, the cause of death is being
verified, Forest officials said.