10-year-old elephant injured in a bus accident near Shoolagiri (India)
By Sivaguru S, The New Indian Express
July 4, 2016

See link for photo
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/tamil_nadu/10-year-old-elephant-injured-in-a-bus-accident-near-Shoolagiri/2016/07/04/article3513270.ece>
.

A 10- year- old makhana elephant was injured while crossing road near
Shoolagiri in Krishnagiri on wee hours of Monday.

According to Hosur District forest Officer Rajendiran to Express, a tusker
and makhana was trying to cross Chettipalli Reserved Forest to Sanamavu
Reserved Forest by crossing Krishnagiri to Hosur National Highway. At that
time a SETC bus from Kumbakonam to Bengaluru was on the way and when
nearing Shoolagiri on wee hours it hits the pachyderm when crossing it. Due
to which makhana elephant was injured and received fracture on its back leg
and hence it was planned to transport to Mudumalai Wildlife Sanctuary, " he
said.

Similarly, passengers of the bus was escaped without injuries and due to
the incident, injured elephant was lied on road for few hours. On
information forest and police department rushed to the spot and using
cranes it lifted and shifted to the lorry and was taken to Gopachandram
nursery to give first aid.

The elephant is transporting to Mudumalai Wild Life Sanctuary via Bengaluru
and Mysore.

Krishnagiri Collector C Kathiravan, State Animal Husbandry Minister
Balakrishna Reddy, Conservator of  Forest Ulaganathan rushed to the spot
and urged the rescue work.

As Krishnagiri district is border of Karnataka, elephants from Bannerghatta
Wild Life Sanctuary in Karnataka would frequently visit the district in
search of food and water during migratory period of every year.

Collector Kathiravan said to Express, an Eco- bridge has planned to
construct across reserve forests in Krishnagiri - Hosur National Highway
 to avoid the human - animal conflicts Forest department and National
Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has approved the plan and undergoing the
preparation work and this could be first eco- bridge in India to cross
elephants and other wild animals to avoid such accidents, he said.

It has to say that 8 elephants died in various accidents since 2003.

In 2003, five jumbos knocked down by  train while crossing railway track at
Periyanagathunai near Rayakottai. Similarly, in 2013 two more elephants
died in the same place by hitting train  while crossing the track.

In 2015, an elephant calf was mowed down by speeding car near Shoolagiri.

On this year January, a tusker was injured near Krishnagiri Collectorate
while crossing the Krishnagiri - Hosur National Highway.
