After Search With Drones, Officers Forced To Shoot Dead Elephant (West
Bengal)
Monideepa Banerjie, NDTV
July 6, 2016

See link for photos
<http://www.ndtv.com/india-news/after-search-with-drones-officers-forced-to-shoot-dead-elephant-1428650>
.

Earthmovers closed in on a patch of forest in West Bengal's Bankura
district to dig the ground as the beast lay motionless. This morning, smoke
was seen rising from the area. A full-grown male elephant, shot dead with
no less 12 bullets after a dangerous chase, was being cremated.

The elephant had been killed last night after tranquillisers failed to
bring the tusker down. The chase had involved drones, five teams and nearly
cost one senior official his life after the elephant turned aggressive and
charged at the teams.

The elephant had been declared a rogue last year after it killed at least
one person and destroyed several homes in Bankura district.

Its killing comes a month after union minister Maneka Gandhi, famous for
her activism in animal rights, had said that the West Bengal government had
got permission to kill wild elephants from the environment ministry.

These comments came when 200 Nilgai were killed in Bihar. At that time West
Bengal authorities had stoutly denied that it had sought clearance to kill
but confirmed that it had sought permission to capture 18 wild elephants
which had claimed 71 lives in South West Bengal in since April last year.
35 of the deaths had occurred in Bankura.

On Monday, wildlife officials launched drones in the Bankura forest of
Beliatore. Once the cameras spotted the two elephants, five separate teams
were moved towards them. A smaller eight foot tall elephant was
tranquillised and captured but the bigger tusker showed no signs of slowing
down despite being hit by several darts.

"Yesterday wildlife officials again launched an operation to capture the
elephant but after being darted 7 times the elephant turned aggressive and
attacked the Hulla party and officials. One senior wildlife official Sujoy
Ghosh was almost trampled to death. At that time wildlife officials decided
they had no option but to shoot the elephant dead," Pradeep Vyas, chief
wildlife warden, West Bengal said.

"It has never been our intention to kill. We in fact got five elephants
from Nor6th Bengal to Bankura to help in the capture of rogue elephants but
it did not work. We had not option," he added.
