Another tranquilised tusker dead; had stopped a bullet (Coimbatore, India)
S Menthol Kumar, The New Indian Express
June 26, 2016

See link for photo
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/tamil_nadu/Another-tranquilised-tusker-dead-had-stopped-a-bullet/2016/06/26/article3500781.ece>
.

A 40-year-old tusker that died at a reserve forest on Tamil Nadu-Kerala
border, despite the last minute treatment given by Kerala forest department
officials could have been killed by a bullet injury, suspect a joint team
of experts from the two States who conducted the post mortem examination on
Saturday evening.

The wound behind its right ear, estimated to be about a month old, was
small but deep - about a foot and half and cut its shoulder bone. “It was
in pain, there were several litres of pus that we took out of the wound,”
said Shaji Panikkasserry, senior veterinary surgeon from Mannarkadu in
Kerala, who conducted the post-mortem examination along with his colleague,
surgeon Abubucker Siddique aand M Jayanthi, veterinary doctor from
Anaikatti in Tamil Nadu.

The infection from this wound entered its blood - septicaemia - and killed
the elephant, said the doctors.

“There was only that one injury, which we suspect might have been caused by
a bullet. But we did not recover any bullet,” Shaji added. After finding it
wounded, the animal was being tracked by the Kerala forest department,
sources told Sunday Express. On Friday morning, it was tranquilised by
veterinary surgeon Arun Sakaria with the help of Tamil Nadu forest
department. They treated it for the injury after sedating it, and a team of
anti-poaching watchers from Periyanacikenpalayam forest range monitored its
condition till late night even after releasing.

The efforts, however, went in vain, with the animal found dead about 200
metres away from Bhavani river, inside Gopanari reserve forest in the range
on the border on Saturday morning.

The district forest officer (DFO) in charge A Periyasamy visited the spot
to carry out investigation. As mandated by rules, representatives of an
NGO, Osai, were present during post-mortem examination jointly carried out
by the Kerala and Tamil Nadu forest departments.

The wound was not caused during fight with another bull elephant as was
suspected initially, ruled the veterinarians after the examination. This
has raised questions about suspecting poaching in the contiguous forest
range that is spread across both States. “We cannot rule out poaching in
these States. Last year, for instance, officials in Kerala had recovered 50
kgs ivory from a gang,  which confessed to have poached  the animal in
Coimbatore,” said environmentalist K Mohanraj.

“We have anti-poaching camps in remote areas that has made the district
safe. But such facilities are not available in Kerala. Anyway, we will wait
for the report from the veterinarians to conclude whether the elephant died
due to bullet injury,” Periyasamy said. Mannarkadu DFO was not be reachable
for comments. Last July, the Union Minister had sought an explanation from
State Forest Department over alleged lack of adequate measures to protect
the Edamalayar forest range where poachers gunned down five elephants.