An aggressive bull elephant that fatally trampled its owner was shot to
death on Friday after it smashed six houses and frightened villagers after
tromping out of the Mondolkiri province forest into which it had fled
earlier this week, officials said.

The elephant, Toak, had charged out of the forest on Thursday afternoon,
“but we managed to scare him back into the forest using fireworks,” Jemma
Bullock, program manager for the Elephant Livelihood Initiative
Environment, which sought to help the villagers, said on Friday.

A bull elephant flees into the forest shortly after it trampled its mahout
to death in Mondolkiri province on Wednesday. (Mondolkiri Provincial Police)

Overnight, while authorities were waiting for a team of veterinarians with
tranquilizer guns to arrive from Phnom Tamao Wildlife Rescue Center “the
elephant came out of the forest again and returned to the village. He was
really aggressive and clearly still in the signs of musth,” or mating
behavior, she said.

After its death, the elephant’s owners removed its valuable ivory tusk,
fearing others might try to take it, she said. Photographs later surfaced
on local media, leading readers to fear the animal had been hacked to
death, but this was not the case, she said.

“He smashed down six houses and was completely uncontrollable,” she said.
“Police and a fire truck came to help, and were firing warning shots and
trying to scare him back to the forest. But when he kept attacking the
house one police officer fired on his leg to stop him.”

The elephant went down about 1 a.m. and died an hour later, she said.

Kan Peng, police chief of Sen Monorom City, confirmed the death, saying it
was necessary because the elephant had “killed a human and destroyed
property” and the rescuers were taking too long to respond. He said the
elephant was buried.

The saga began on Wednesday when the elephant, out for a walk with
tourists, attacked and trampled his mahout, or handler, 45-year-old Choeung
Tieng, near Katang village in Sen Monorom City’s Romnea commune. The
incident was attributed to the elephant being denied an opportunity to mate
during the rutting season.

After the attack, the elephant had run into the forest with a female
elephant. “The female was recaptured by her owners Friday morning,” Ms.
Bullock said.

