 wild elephant is dead – at the hands of the Department of Wildlife
Conservation (DWC), the very institution which is supposedly the guardian
of these majestic animals.

“When will we ever learn,” is the lament of numerous environmentalists as
there were howls of protest not only from them but also the public over
this “senseless” killing.

The DWC over-reacted and used excessive force than was necessary, was the
consensus among them, as two parallel probes were launched by Wildlife and
Sustainable Development Minister Gamini Jayawickrama Perera and the DWC.

The video of the shooting of the cow-elephant in Kombaveittakulam,
Omanthai, Vavuniya is heart-rending. Two adult females and their babies had
fallen into an agricultural well. Perhaps, a baby fell in first and in
their efforts to save it the others fell in too. The two babies were
apparently taken out first by the DWC. The agony and the stress of the two
bigger elephants, left swimming round and round, attempting to get out of
this watery trap is obvious.

Then comes into view, in the eyes of the elephants, what would have been a
different threat – a huge orange backhoe, while in the background the
so-called rescue personnel including the DWC staff can be heard shouting at
the animals. A ‘circus’ seems to ensue thereafter.

In the last moments of her life, the desperation of the cow-elephant,
firstly struggling to get up the muddy and slippery slope of the well can
actually be felt even through the video. Her futile attempts to charge at
the orange monster blocking her escape route into the jungle and finally,
the sound of one shot, a cloud of smoke, a second shot and another cloud of
smoke and a third shot and a cloud of smoke and as if in slow motion, the
majestic elephant collapses and drops dead. Since it is believed that she
was a nursing mother, her killing also condemns her baby to death by
starvation.

Whether the other elephant was also injured, as a gun-shot seems to be in
that animal’s direction as well, remains a mystery.

DWC sources told the Sunday Times that the department was conducting an
inquiry and the report was expected early next. When asked for details with
regard to the incident, the source said that the well was about 12km off
the A9, in a rural area. The rescue operation was carried out at around
9.30 a.m. on Monday (April 17). The elephants had been spotted in the well
the previous day. There were two cow elephants and two babies, but the DWC
was not certain whether the babies were of those cow elephants.

“There was absolutely no need to shoot dead the elephant which was of
little threat to the DWC guard who was on the backhoe,” was the view of
experts who analyzed this particular incident and pegged it to a wider
issue.

“Elephants charging at vehicles happens not uncommonly and jeeps do get hit
in wildlife parks. Raiding elephants often attack tree huts in chenas and
elephants break down houses to get at stored grain. Killing an elephant is
not considered the appropriate response in any of these instances,” said
the Chairman of the Centre for Conservation and Research (CCR), Dr.
Prithiviraj Fernando, who has been conducting research on elephants for
nearly three decades.

Reiterating that many other measures could have been tried, before shooting
dead the elephant, he said that the most logical first reaction should have
been — when they saw the animal coming out — was to move the backhoe, which
was clearly blocking her pathway to freedom. There seems to have been no
thinking or planning before using fire-power to kill.

Even if the backhoe was not moved, the animal could have been diverted from
heading towards the backhoe by fire-crackers first and if those did not
work, then non-lethal bird-shot from a shot-gun. These are tiny lead
pellets which would hit the skin of the elephant and caused pain but not go
through and leave huge fatal injuries. The cartridges with large lead balls
used in this instance as a first resort were absolutely the wrong
ammunition. The DWC guard could have also shot at the body and not made a
direct hit at the head of the elephant, the Sunday Times understands.

While the ‘lighter’ measures such as fire-crackers and bird-shot are tried
out, another official could stand-by with a rifle to take down the animal
if human life is endangered. But killing the elephant should be the very
last resort, according to Dr. Fernando. “It should definitely not be the
first-line of defence.”

The Wildlife and Nature Protection Society (WNPS), meanwhile, in a
statement issued on Thursday night, titled ‘From protector to executioner’
strongly protested against the shooting.

As the oldest conservation organization of its kind, the founder of the
initial National Parks and prime facilitator in the setting up of the DWC,
the WNPS underscored that this act of needless destruction of a
nationally-protected species by those who should be protecting them
counters every principle of conservation on which these institutions were
established.

“The available video coverage of the incident clearly shows that at no time
was human life in danger during the incident and the need to shoot the
elephant dead, rather than just frighten it away as has been done before,
is called into question. The video also shows another elephant being shot
at and falling, though the DWC claims that only one died. The DWC is the
main statutory agency set up for the protection of all wildlife, including
elephants. If they have now taken to shooting the animals they are supposed
to protect, then an already endangered species is doomed to extinction,” it
said.

Strongly urging that the two inquiries into this elephant-killing be
carried out with a degree of transparency that leaves nothing open for
question, the WNPS states that as per the available video footage of the
incident, the ‘circus’ that surrounded this tragic killing, highlights
alarming lapses in procedure and gaps in the law. They include:

Astoundingly, the DWC does not have an official protocol or procedure to
deal with situations like this, the extrication of wild elephants from
unguarded irrigation pits/wells, despite it being an all too frequent
occurrence of late. Had they done so, the army of onlookers would have been
cleared and appropriate measures taken to channel the rescued animals away
from the rescuers.

If a human falls into an unguarded well or pit, the person or persons who
made the excavation are legally liable for any resulting injury and costs.
Yet, when an elephant falls into such a hole, the DWC is not only held
liable for its extraction, but has to bear the resulting costs. These
wells/channels are often paid for by aid agencies and they should ensure
that basic measures are taken not only to prevent elephants and other
animals from falling in, but also humans. Those who dig these holes and
leave them unguarded should be held liable to pay for the costs of anyone
or any animal falling in. Such legal measures, if enforced, would soon
result in proper safety measures being implemented for the wellbeing of all
– humans and animals.

“It is hoped that this tragedy will result in the DWC and the ministry
commencing discussions and consulting elephant and legal experts to
formulate a protocol to deal with such situations where the destruction of
the animal will be the last resort, rather than the first, trigger-happy
choice. It is too late for this unfortunate victim but the world will be
watching to see whether justice will prevail in her killing and whether
there is any hope for the conservation of the wild elephant under the
present political and administrative institutions responsible for their
protection and under the law,” the WNPS adds.

Another environmentalist also pointed out that the DWC guard, who shot dead
the elephant, has been transferred to a different area, which indicates
that the DWC has not acknowledged the fundamental reasoning that the
killing was not acceptable. What the right course of action would have been
is to send the official on compulsory leave, as the killing of an elephant
is against the law of the country, at least until the investigations were
concluded. The message from the current actions is that it is acceptable to
kill an elephant even though it is an illegal act under Sri Lankan law.

Taking up a press release issued by the Game-guard Union that the guard’s
action was justified because the elephant was “on a rampage and the killing
was carried out in self-defence”, another environmentalist was quick to
point out that the video clearly shows that the ‘rampage’ part was totally
untrue.

The implication of such a stance is very dangerous, he said, adding that it
promotes the thinking that elephants should be killed and that’s what
villagers will do, making the human-elephant conflict take on a different
dimension. “We will give villagers an excuse to take the law into their own
hands if an elephant damages a home or a tree-hut. The message being told
loud and clear, wrongly, is that when faced with an aggressive elephant you
should kill it.”
