Dwindling jumbo population causes concern (Mayurbhanj District, India)
Orissa Post
August 18, 2017

See link
<http://www.orissapost.com/dwindling-jumbo-population-causes-concern/> for
photo.

Baripada: Though a host of measures are being taken to protect elephants,
the number of animals continues to decline in the famous Similipal
sanctuary and three forest divisions in Mayurbhanj for various reasons.

Despite the implementation of an elephant conservation project, several
animals have reportedly died.

Around 84 elephants have died in the last six years in the area, according
to reports. The elephant census is usually carried every two years and an
elephant count was conducted from May 9 to May 12, 2017. According to the
latest census, the number of elephants is put at 489 when compared with
figures of 509 in 2015.

Reports suggested that the number of elephants in Similipal has been
decreasing every year, but the department is allegedly not showing
alertness to protect the jumbos.

Unofficial sources said 84 elephants have lost their lives in Similipal in
the last six years.

The government took a good step to protect elephants in 2008 by
implementing the elephant conservation project. An area of 7043 square/km
covering Similipal, Hadagad sanctuary of Keonjhar and Kuladiha sanctuary in
Balasore was notified as part of the project. Despite this, the number of
elephants in the area has dwindled, causing alarm among observers.

Wildlife lovers and environmentalists pointed out that if the number of
elephants dwindles at this rate, Similipal would struggle to protect its
jumbo population.

The government had declared 2750 sq/km in Similipal as elephant sanctuary
in 1979. In 1986, the Central government earmarked 845 square/km here for a
national park. However, due to human habitations inside the sanctuary, it
has been deprived of the tag of a national park.

Elephant poaching has also been reported sometimes from the area. Another
factor for elephant causalities is electrocution. Due to human presence
inside the sanctuary, elephants are straying out of their habitats into
human settlements. Such cases have been increasing, leading to man-animal
conflict, observers pointed out.

The elephants have been causing loss of lives and properties in the
peripheral areas of the sanctuary.

Recently, a tusker died after coming in to contact with an electricity wire
at Jhadjamda of Badajod panchayat under Baripada forest division. Such
incidents have posed a question mark on the responsibility of the
officials. They are supposed to track and monitor the movement of elephants
inside forests.

Regional chief conservators of forests (RCCF) Harish Kumar Bist said the
elephant corridors have been identified. “As per the project guidelines,
the staff has been engaged. Saplings are being planted in forests. There
will be a rise and fall in elephant numbers during census,” he said.
