Man-animal conflict: Five wild elephant deaths in a month (Idukki District,
India)
The Times of India
September 3, 2017

See link
<http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kochi/man-animal-conflict-five-wild-elephant-deaths-in-a-month/articleshow/60346766.cms>
for photo.

IDUKKI: Man-animal conflict has entered a disturbing phase in and around
Munnar with the number of elephants entering human settlements registering
an increase. The safety of wild elephants are at risk with five of them
dying in 35 days in Munnar and Marayoor forest division areas.

While two elephants died of unknown causes, an excavator rammed the third
one, a brick wall fell on the fourth one and the fifth one was electrocuted.

It was on July 25 that the rogue tusker named Chillikkompan was injured by
an excavator on the premises of the Kannan Devan tea plantations at
Chenduvara and later succumbed to the injuries.

Postmortem report revealed that the elephant died of injuries in heart and
lungs. Another female elephant was found dead in Thalayar estate near
Munnar on August 5. The elephant had apparently slipped from a rock. On
August 11, another female elephant was found dead near the estate belonging
to ADGP Tomin J Thachankary's brother Tissen J Thachankary.

Later, the postmortem revealed that the elephant was electrocuted. The
forest department regis tered a case against the estate manager and the
estate owner. The estate owner was named as the second accused in the case
and forest officials recorded his arrest. On August 22, the carcass of a
female elephant was spotted in KDHP plantations in Chokkanad.

According to postmortem report the 16-year-old pregnant elephant died due
to health issues. "The samples of internal organs of the two elephants have
been already sent to Palod veterinary laboratory for detailed examination.
We suspect the elephants died of some disease. Once we get the report we
will take further steps," said chief wildlife warden K J Varghese.

Meanwhile, on August 19, another elephant died in Adimali forest division.
The elephant tried to demolish an isolated building and the wall collapsed
on it.

"In Munnar, the rule now is to kill animals to bring down the menace.
Despite sending many letters to the wildlife board, the officials have not
even bothered to send a team to study the issue.The incidents have clearly
proved that the resort lobby and related mafia tried to kill the wild
elephants in the area, says V K Venkitachalam of the Heritage Animal Task
Force.

