Car written off after crash with elephant that got up and walked away
(Thailand)
Tanveer Mann, Metro
November 14, 2017

See link
<http://metro.co.uk/2017/11/14/car-written-off-after-crash-with-elephant-that-got-up-and-walked-away-7077978/>
for photos & video.

Utai Bitdtakreu, 32, had been driving home from work on Sunday evening with
his wife in the car in Nakhon Ratchasima, Thailand.

But as he went round a small bend on a dark section of mountain road, a
wild elephant stepped out into the path of the vehicle. Utai tried to hit
the brakes as his daughter screamed with fright, but the pick-up truck
ploughed into the creature.

Incredibly, the elephant survived and the driver and his passenger crawled
out of the wreckage unhurt after the accident at 7.30pm in the Khao Yai
National Park.

Utai, a forestry worker, said: ‘We were a little bit shaken up by the
accident but our first thoughts were for the elephant. ‘There are a lot of
elephants that cross the road and I’m so sorry I did not see this one in
time. It just ran across the road. It might have thought that it could get
across in time.’

Rescue workers arrived and began looking for the elephant which they
believed might have been injured in the crash but they were unable to trace
it.

However, Utain returned early the next morning and recorded three elephants
crossing the road and he believes the one at the back of the line is the
beast he hit. It appeared to have an injured hind left leg.

He said: ‘It’s a big relief knowing that the elephant is alive and walking
around.’

National Park boss Kanchit Sareenpuanron said that workers had been sent to
find the elephant and give it treatment for its leg.

He said: ‘We received the call at 7.30pm and arrived at the scene quickly
to give help. Staff have been ordered to follow that elephant which has
been injured and administer treatment.’

The Khao Yai National Park covers some 1250 square miles across several
neighbouring provinces in central Thailand.

