Another Pygmy Elephant dies from Gunshot Wounds in Sabah (Malaysia)
Clean Malaysia
December 12, 2017

See link
<http://cleanmalaysia.com/2017/12/12/another-pygmy-elephant-dies-gunshot-wounds-sabah/>
for photos.

Bornean pygmy elephants are facing existential threats in Sabah and so the
death of any more wild elephants in the state is bad news. Yet just over
the past few months several wild elephants have been shot dead by poachers
or irate plantation workers.

Now another wild elephant is dead. The bull elephant, which was around six
years old, had been shot and ended up succumbing to his injuries before
staff at the Borneo Wildlife Sanctuary in Kinabatangan, where he was taken
for treatment, could save him.

“During the examination, a bullet slug was found lodged in its injured
front left leg,” explained Augustine Tuuga, director of the Sabah Wildlife
Department. “There were also sign of gunshots on the body but they did not
penetrate or cause any internal organ injury.”

The pachyderm also suffered an injury to his tongue, likely from a gunshot.
“While undergoing medical examination and treatment, its tongue was found
to have serious wound, believed to have been caused by a gunshot,” the
director said. “The wound on the tongue made the elephant unable to eat or
drink.”

The department’s rescue unit captured the elephant on November 24 at a
plantation in Ladang Pertama after he had been reported to be acting
aggressively towards locals in the area. He was showing signs of an injury
on his left front leg. After tracking the wild elephant for some time,
officials managed to capture him and took him to the wildlife sanctuary for
treatment. But by then it was too late for the animal.

It remains unknown who shot the elephant, but the likelihood is that it was
an irate plantation worker. “We will investigate the case further as it
involves the death of a totally protected species,” Tuuga said. The
elephant’s death is especially egregious as it comes shortly after another
bull elephant was found dead with three gunshot wounds at a large
plantation in Tawau, where another male elephant was also killed last
month, bringing the tally of dead elephants, all shot dead, to three within
the space of just a few weeks.

And so it goes: plantations have robbed wild elephants in the area of their
natural habitats, severely reducing their roaming grounds. As a result,
many of them can’t help but wander onto plantations, where they then
encounter locals who look askance at the pachyderms feeding on crops. Some
of these locals take matters into their own hands and shot the animals.

“When elephants come into conflict with people it is a battle in which the
gentle animals are destined to lose,” observes SM Mohd Idris, president of
the conservationist group Sahabat Alam Malaysia. “Those responsible for
land clearance are highly aware of the increased risks of elephants coming
into conflict with people and the subsequent fatalities that may arise,” he
adds. “Many plantation owners and farmers now see elephants as enemies, yet
it is humans, not the pachyderms, who are responsible for this situation.”