FIR over jumbo electrocution (State of Assam, India)
The Telegraph India
December 9, 2017

GUWAHATI: The Assam forest department will lodge an FIR against the Assam
Power Distribution Company Limited (APDCL) and the contractor who modified
the route of the transmission line passing through a paddy field in Hojai
leading to the electrocution of an elephant.

A Lumding-Guwahati empty rake was stopped between Hojai and Jugijan by
forest personnel of Nagaon south division at 4.45pm on Thursday and around
60-odd elephants from Kumarakata reserve forest moved towards Tongipathar
area safely.

"A 12-year-old female elephant moved out of the herd, came in contact with
the low-lying transmission line and got electrocuted. The contractor,
without following due procedures, modified the route of the transmission
line to save money. An FIR will be lodged against APDCL and the
contractor," a senior forest official told The Telegraph.

The incident took place in Dondipathar revenue village near Hojai town
around 11pm on Thursday.

A source said the transmission line was sub-contracted at the local level.

NF Railway on Thursday had said a patrol team and forest department
personnel had prevented a possible accident involving a herd of 73
elephants on Tuesday between Jogijan and Hojai railway stations. The NFR
said the team had alerted the railway control room which helped them stop
Amritsar Express on time and helped the herd to cross the tracks.

It said the same herd again crossed over the railway tracks at about 5.17am
on December 6 morning.

The area falls under the jurisdiction of Hojai divisional forest officer.

"There have been similar cases in the recent past as well where such
accidents involving elephants could be avoided upon receiving timely
information. The railway authority has been issuing temporary speed
restrictions and caution orders as and when information about elephant
movement is received from on-duty railway or forest officials. Permanent
speed restrictions are also imposed on notified elephant corridors," the
railways said.
