Authorities to ‘COLLAR’ Tuskers under threat (Sri Lanka)
Kamanthi Wickramasinghe, The Daily Mirror
December 19, 2017

See link
<http://www.dailymirror.lk/article/Authorities-to-COLLAR-Tuskers-under-threat-142445.html>
for photos & graphics.

Conservation verses extinction: Where do jumbos stand today?

News of five tuskers being shot dead inside two weeks made headlines in
newspapers, thus raising doubts among authorities and experts in the field.
All these animals were killed in and around Puttalam District, with four
killings happening just after Dala Poottuwa’s body was found.

Whether it’s a warning sign to authorities or whether someone is trying to
exercise his power is still uncertain as the deliberate killing of the Dala
Poottuwa is still under investigation.

As an immediate measure to protect the rest of the tuskers, the Wildlife
and Sustainable Development Minister recently proposed the introduction of
GPS tracking collars.

The Minister has also made clear that the Department of Wildlife
Conservation (DWC) is short-staffed and that there are less people to go on
patrol. Such discrepancies in the system have given rise to more issues
pertaining to wildlife.

As a result wildlife enthusiasts are yet to know if proper monitoring is
done with regard to the use of collars. While experts are still weighing
the pros and cons associated with this technology, it is unclear as to
whether wildlife authorities are also ready to use such sophisticated
collars despite vandalism taking place.

In an attempt to shed light on this topic, the Daily Mirror, spoke to a few
experts in the field while also highlighting results of a research done on
the effectiveness of GPS tracking collars.

Speaking at a press conference held last week, subject minister Gamini
Jayawickrama Perera said that the ministry has received information about
several baby elephants being abandoned near Menik Ganga and few other
places in Hambantota.

“I’m yet to know who is behind these activities because it’s clear that
someone wants to retain baby elephants illegally. Thereafter, it’s easy for
them to transport baby elephants to Middle East countries. I will provide
all this information to the CID as well as to Interpol to commence
investigations immediately. As a signatory of the CITES Agreement we have
to be more responsible in conserving wildlife. The other disturbing fact is
that four other tuskers were killed soon after the Dala Poottuwa’s
incident. The CID is independently handling the investigation and I will
not disclose any information at this stage. One of these elephants was
poisoned, the other was shot and one of them was electrocuted. There are
several lawsuits currently underway and some people are trying to show that
there’s no protection for wild elephants. Another issue is the rapid
encroachment of their habitats by humans and as a result elephants have
become a threat to humans. In view of this I’m planning to submit a Cabinet
paper as well,” the minister said.

While commending the work of Dr. Prithiviraj Fernando and other elephant
researchers, the Minister further said that all tuskers will have a GPS
tracking collar in future. “We have spoken to various independent groups to
weigh the pros and cons of using these collars. Research on the use of
collars is still being carried out in countries such as Kenya. But as an
immediate measure, we have decided to put collars on all tuskers and
monitor their movements within those areas. There’s also a challenge of
upgrading the workforce in the DWC in order to ensure frequent monitoring
of these elephants. At the end of the day, DWC officials are blamed for any
discrepancy. We have forest reserves and national parks that have to be
protected. So I need the assistance of the Tri-forces to work with DWC
officials and go on patrols, especially at night, in order to give out a
message that they are always on the watch. DWC officials haven’t received
any training so far. Previously, new recruits had to go on these patrols
with veterans, but we don’t see this happening anymore. Therefore we have
to train them from scratch,” Perera said.

Speaking to the Daily Mirror, wildlife enthusiast and President of the
Wildlife and Nature Protection Society (WNPS) Rukshan Jayawardene said that
collared elephants have hardly been killed. “Collars could have cameras
that can photograph elephants. Sophisticated collars could be used, but
constant monitoring should take place. The recent killings of five tuskers
within two weeks is questionable. Although there tusks haven’t been
removed, except for those of the Dala Poottuwa, they could be smuggled to a
safe location. Nobody is willing to visit these places where they have been
killed. When the locations are exposed via media and the Police and other
authorities start investigating, these people get information faster than
the rest,” said Jayawardene.

Jayawardene further said that poachers and hunters don’t seem to carry
lucrative products. “In most instances it’s being given to them by someone
in power or someone who wants it to be delivered to another party. For
example Chinese tourists have been caught with various bio-matters such as
pangolin scales, wallapatta barks and other products. The Department needs
to rapidly deploy people in areas where these crimes take place. Elephants
are the wealth of this nation and nobody can give lame excuses every time
an elephant is killed,” said Jayawardene.

>From the above mentioned records it’s clearly evident that these incidents
took place in the Puttalam District. Therefore, allegations of an organized
group aiming at these tuskers fall into place.

As soon as the incident of the Dala Poottuwa made newspaper headlines, the
Daily Mirror, learned that the chief priest of Nikawewa Temple had gone
missing.

Several weeks afterwards, the CID is still carrying out investigations in
search of the suspects. At present, three of them are in custody.