A female elephant which was electrocuted after crashing into a
contractors’ cabin in Gerik yesterday, was a female leader of a pack that
was still breastfeeding her calf, an official has revealed today.

Perak Department of Wildlife and National Parks (Perhilitan) principal
assistant director Wan Shaharuddin Wan Nordin said the department came to
the conclusion as milk was coming out from its breast.

“We have no idea how old is her calf but those who saw the herd said the
elephant which died was part of a group of six or seven elephants,” he told
Malay Mail when contacted here.

“With the death of its mother, the calf will now be cared for by other
elephants in the group,” he added.

Wan Shaharuddin said initial investigations showed the female elephant,
which was more than 20 years old, had approached the cabin as it smelled
food.

“It tried to push down the cabin door to get to the food. The impact of the
push instead caused the electricity supplied to the cabin to land on it
thus electrocuting it,” he said.

Wan Shaharuddin added that the female pachyderm was most probably the
leader of the herd.

“Upon seeing the leader dead, the herd ran amok and destroyed the other
cabins in the area,” he explained.

It was reported that the female pachyderm, which weighed roughly two
tonnes, received a 240 volt shock from the electricity supplied to the
cabin.

The cabin, located around 100 metres away from the Seri Banding army camp,
was being used by contractors who were carrying out repair works on the
site of a recent landslide.

Malaysian Nature Society past president Prof Maketab Mohamed when contacted
said the tragedy would become the norm due to the conflict between man and
nature.

“Elephants are a regular feature along the Gerik to Jeli highway as the
pachyderms are not scared of humans. They used to eat food wastes dumped in
an illegal dump site along the highway,” he said.

The professor added that elephants cross the highway regularly at many
spots despite the presence of a wildlife viaduct, and explained that the
incident would not have occurred if the elephants had a place to go.

“Stopping all forest conversions would be good,” he quipped, adding that
suitable habitats are rarer by the day as more forests being converted to
other uses especially to oil palm plantations.