Juvenile elephant found dead in hole in Keo Seima Wildlife Sanctuary
(Cambodia)
Khouth Sophak Chakrya, Phnom Penh Post
January 9, 2018

See link
<http://www.phnompenhpost.com/national/juvenile-elephant-found-dead-hole-keo-seima-wildlife-sanctuary>
for photo.

A young male elephant was found dead after getting stuck in a hole on
Monday afternoon in Mondulkiri’s Keo Seima Wildlife Sanctuary, according to
officials.

Dem Buntoeun, the sanctuary’s director, said the 1-year-old elephant had
already been removed, and the corpse was transported to the Ministry of
Environment in Phnom Penh for study.

“We felt deep regret after obtaining the report from border military forces
at O’Chum area saying that they encountered it dead because it was trapped
in a hole surrounded by bamboo bushes,” he said.

At first, he said, they suspected the hole was a trap set by hunters, but
upon inspection realised that the elephant had in fact stepped into a
termite nest which collapsed, trapping the two hind legs of the pachyderm
in a pit about one metre wide and a little over half a metre deep.

Given that the body had not begun to decompose, Bunteoun said, experts
estimate that the 200-kilogram elephant likely died on Sunday night or
early Monday morning.

Keo Sopheak, the Mondulkiri Environment Department director, said the
elephant’s body would be taxidermied and put on display for the young
generation to “study and research”.

According to the Wildlife Conservation Society some 250 to 500 globally
endangered wild Asian elephants remain in the Kingdom, with no more than
115 individuals in the Keo Seima Wildlife Sanctuary.

WCS Technical Advisor Tan Setha is quoted in a press release saying “Wild
elephants in Cambodia are facing high risk due to habitat loss and snaring".

"To protect this species, we need to safeguard their natural habitat with
the participation of all stake-holders, especially local authorities and
communities to report information to the relevant authorities and
conservation organizations whenever they encounter the elephants ... in bad
condition,” he said.