Jumbo steps on mine laid by Maoists in Jharkhand, grievously injured (State
of Jharkhand, India)
Dhritiman Ray, The Times of India
January 12, 2018

See link
<https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ranchi/jumbo-steps-on-mine-laid-by-maoists-in-jharkhand-grievously-injured/articleshow/62477089.cms>
for photo.

RANCHI/DALTONGANJ: A group of veterinary doctors and medical staff have
sighted an adult male elephant grievously injured by a possible landmine
explosion in the Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR).

The bull elephant, sighted in the south division of PTR that is spread over
Latehar district in west Jharkhand, was sighted with wounds in his right
hind leg three days ago.

"The adult male elephant has wounds in right hind leg and is very
aggressive and restless. It is limping over the last three days," AK
Mishra, the deputy director of PTR's south division (additional charge),
told the TOI on Friday. However, Mishra could not definitively ascertain
the cause of the wound till evening.

However, foresters aware of the development said the wound looked like one
from a landmine blast.

Last September, another male elephant was injured in a landmine blast set
off by operatives of CPI (Maoists) in the core area of PTR. The jumbo
wandered around the sanctuary in pain for three days before succumbing to
its injuries.

The injury, which has left the animal in enormous pain, has also left it
greatly agitated. Its aggressive behavior is preventing the medical team
from getting closer, thereby worsening its chances of survival with every
passing minute.

"It travelled 10 kilometers across the sanctuary overnight and is in pain.
The medical team is tailing close to it. Finding an opportune moment, it
will be sedated using a tranquilizer gun. Only then its medication can be
started," a PTR forester said. PTR director MP Singh could be contacted
till evening.

PTR reported two jumbo deaths in 2017. In June, a male elephant died of
anthrax. The other pachyderm died of landmine explosion injuries.

Of the 555 elephants present in Jharkhand's wilds, nearly 190 reside in the
sanctuary. PTR, the only tiger sanctuary in Jharkhand, has been a safe
haven of left wing extremism outfits for more than a decade.