Poachers blamed as body of Sumatran elephant, missing tusks, found in
protected forest (Indonesia)
Taufik Wijaya, Mongabay
January 11, 2018

See link
<https://news.mongabay.com/2018/01/poachers-blamed-as-body-of-sumatran-elephant-missing-tusks-found-in-protected-forest/>
for photos.

PALEMBANG, INDONESIA: Wildlife activists in Indonesia suspect poachers
poisoned an elephant found with its tusks hacked off in a protected forest
in southern Sumatra.

The body of the male Sumatran elephant (Elephas maximus sumatranus),
believed to be about 10 years old, was found Sunday by local farmers in a
community plantation within the Mount Raya protected forest area, which
borders Bukit Barisan Selatan National Park in South Sumatra province.

The park is also home to critically endangered Sumatran tigers (Panthera
tigris sondaica), rhinos (Dicerorhinus sumatrensis) and orangutans (Pongo
abelii), all of which faced increased threats from greater human incursion
into their habitats as a result of road projects.

Citing a lack of wounds on the body, wildlife activists believe the
elephant was killed by poisoning — a common tactic used by poachers in the
region.

Muhroni, a wildlife expert with the environmental NGO Jejak Indonesia, who
inspected the body, said the perpetrators likely sprayed the poison on
grass, small plants and bushes outside the community plantation. If that’s
the case, other elephants from the herd that the young male belonged to
could also be in danger, he warned.

Authorities are conducting tests to determine the cause of death.

The discovery on Sunday came less than a month after a pregnant elephant
was found dead in an oil palm plantation in Sumatra’s northernmost province
of Aceh on Dec. 22.

In that case, authorities said an autopsy showed general signs of
poisoning, including the digestive organs having turned black. The elephant
was an estimated 25 years old and believed to be at least six months short
of giving birth. It did not have tusks, as is typical for female Sumatran
elephants.

High rates of deforestation throughout much of Sumatra, primarily for
monoculture plantations such as oil palms, rubber and pulpwood, have driven
native wildlife from their habitats and into more frequent conflicts with
humans.

Orangutans and elephants, in particular, are seen as pests by farmers for
raiding crops and trampling plants. Locals have in many cases resorted to
poisoning or shooting the animals.

Poisoning is also used by poachers targeting the elephants’ tusks. The
average wholesale price for ivory in China, one of the key markets for the
commodity, was $730 per kilogram (2.2 pounds) in February 2017, according
to the Save the Elephants.

There are only an estimated 2,400 Sumatran elephants left in the wild,
scattered across 25 fragmented habitats on the island.