DYNAMITE IN FODDER KILLS ELEPHANT CALF
The Hindu
March 25, 2004

A dynamite concealed in fodder exploded in the mouth of an elephant calf, 
ripping its face apart and leaving the hapless creature writhing in agony 
until it died on Wednesday.

The incident is suspected to have taken place two days ago near Hediyala 
village on the fringes of the Bandipur National Park. The injured elephant 
calf was first noticed by a few villagers near Heidyala. They brought the 
injured animal to the Mysore zoo for treatment on Wednesday.

Veterinarians, who examined the animal, found that the tongue had been blown 
off and the face mangled. They said that the elephant calf was in a critical 
condition and since infection had set in, death was imminent.

Even as the villagers were shifting the elephant calf, it collapsed and 
died.

The incident brings to light the growing intolerance towards animals among 
some people living on the fringes of the Bandipur and Nagarahole national 
parks, where the man-animal conflict has increased due to water and fodder 
scarcity.

Though studies on elephant killings across the country have documented the 
death of the animals by electrocution, poisoning, shooting, and spearing (in 
a few tribal dominated States), the gruesome method of warding off animals 
from plantations by hiding explosives in fodder is a new and a growing 
phenomenon in South India.

Though poaching of elephants for ivory has reduced after the International 
Union for Conservation of Nature imposed a ban on ivory trade, 
conservationists in India are worried about the alarming rise in the death 
of elephants due to the man-animal conflict.

In the region bordering Karnataka and Kerala, explosives are packed in 
jackfruit or other edibles and when the elephants bite the bait, it triggers 
of an explosion maiming the hapless animal, which dies a slow and painful 
death. The death of the baby elephant from Hediyala range is a case in 
point.

Given the increase in the man-animal conflict and the growing intolerance 
towards wildlife, conservation biologists are worried that the elephant 
population in Bandipur-Nagarahole-Wynad-Mudumalai range may come down.

The region has the highest density of elephants in Asia, and it is estimated 
that the combined area spread over 55000 sq. km. harbours at least 8,000 to 
10,000 elephants.

But the growing intolerance towards wildlife has put a question mark on 
their future.