Wild elephant butchered in Ngaputaw township (Myanmar)
Myat Moe Aung, The Myanmar Times
March 19, 2018

A wild elephant was brutally killed in Ngaputaw township, Ayeyarwady
Region, despite the announcement of a K3 million reward for information
leading to the arrest of elephant poachers.

On March 12, a local reported the killing of an elephant to the region’s
forest department. The animal was skinned and its tusks were removed,
according to the forest department.

The department and other governmental agencies are currently investigating
the matter, according to U Khun Pyone Naing, officer of the Ngaputaw forest
department.

“Most hunters are not locals. They come from other areas and persuade
locals to collaborate through bribery,” he added.

In Ngaputaw township, three wild elephants were killed since January,
officials said.

U Khun Pyone Naing asked for the villagers’ cooperation to fight the plight
of illegal wildlife trade and to protect endangered species.

“Before this elephant, two hunters who tried to kill elephants were
arrested thanks to the cooperation of locals after the reward was
advertised,” said U Khun Pyone naing.

Friends of Wildlife (FOW), World Wildlife Fund and the forest department
are cooperating to reduce wildlife hunting by putting up posters which
read: “Please, help and cooperate to reduce the killing of wild elephants
and get a chance to receive K3 million by providing information on the
whereabouts of the hunters”.

Posters are displayed in Ayeyarwady Region’s Ngaputaw and Thapaung
townships, according to FOW, which added that killings of elephants are
still ongoing.

Last year, 29 hunters were arrested and 12 wild elephants were killed while
six died of natural causes in Ayeyarwady Region, according to forest
department.

“The hunters arrested will be judged according to the laws such as the
protection of wildlife and conservation natural areas law,” said U Khin
Maung Myint, director of the Ayeyarwady Region forest department.

https://www.mmtimes.com/news/wild-elephant-butchered-ngaputaw-township.html