Well-known one-tusk elephant killed, believed electrocuted, in pineapple
plantation (Thailand)
Thai PBS
April 16, 2018

See link
<http://englishnews.thaipbs.or.th/wellknown-one-tusk-elephant-killed-believed-electrocuted-pineapple-plantation/>
for photo.

A 30-year old bull elephant wellknown among villagers in Tambon Pluang
Thong of Chon Buri’s Bo Thong district for its single ivory tusk and
shortened tail was killed, believed electrocuted, at a pineapple plantation
in Village Two of Tambon Pluang Thong on Sunday(Apr 15).

Officials of the Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plants
Conservation based in Si Racha district were alerted of the jumbo’death by
villagers in Tam,bon Pluang Thong and a team was immediately sent to the
scene to investigate.

Mr Yu Senatham, head of the Si Racha office, said officials had collected
samples of vital organs of the dead elephant to be sent to the department’s
laboratory for examination to determine the cause of its death.

But he said he suspected the elephant was electrocuted and a complaint
would be lodged with Bo Thong police to look for the perpetrator.

A one-minute clip posted in the social media by officials of Ang Runai
wildlife sanctuary after Sunday’s tragedy shows the animal of being
friendly and good- tempered and a familiar figure in Chon Buri and Rayong.

Meanwhile, an informed police source said that the elephant’s trunk was
badly burned, suggesting that it was electrocuted. He said that the
elephant was found dead about 100 metres from the burial site of another
jumbo which was electrocuted on March 25.

A guard of the pineapple plantation where the dead elephant was found on
Sunday, identified as Samin Chansamut, 45, was arrested by the police
allegedly for discharging electricity into the barbed wire fence of the
plantation which killed the elephant on March 25.

The case against him is still pending in the court.

Officials suspected that Samin might be responsible for the Sunday’s death
of the one-tusk elephant and would urge the police to look for him for
interrogation.

http://englishnews.thaipbs.or.th/wellknown-one-tusk-elephant-killed-believed-electrocuted-pineapple-plantation/
