Wild elephant electrocuted from power fencing in Moothedam (State of Tamil
Nadu, India)
T P Nijeesh, The Times of India
June 11, 2018

MALAPPURAM: At a time the local people in forest border areas of Nilambur
are intensifying their protest demanding to install electric fencing in
border areas to prevent entry of wild elephants in farm lands, a 15-year
old elephant was electrocuted from electric fencing in the region, on
Sunday night.

The incident occurred near Padukka forest station in Moothedam panchayat.
The forest authorities have registered a case related to the incident and
started detailed investigation to ascertain the real reason for the
electrocution.

Divisional forest officer of Nilambur (South) V P Sajikumar said that the
preliminary examination of the carcass of animal shows that the death was
due to electrocution.

“There was a power fencing installed by forest authorities in the region
and the animal was found trapped in wires of the power fencing. We suspect
that the animal maintained contact with the wires for a many hours, that
led to death”, he said adding that only detailed investigation will reveal
the real reason for the death.

Hundreds of locals including tribals in forest bordering villages in
Moothedam, Marutha and Edakara regions are spending sleepless nights for
last some days, as wild tuskers are moving through human habitations,
mainly in search of jackfruit.

The herd of elephants which already caused damage of acres of land is still
wandering in the area. Fresh incidents of attack of wild tuskers are
reported in Aranadam Padam, Unichantham, Maddalappara and Marutha areas.

Plantain trees, arecanut trees and coconut trees in acres of area in
Aranadam Padam were destroyed when a tusker unleashed attack in the region
on Saturday.

As tusker is roaming around the region for last one week, local protesters
are demanding to re-install electric fencing in the forest border area.

Huge loss of crops was reported in Maddalappara region of Marutha, when
herd of elephants unleashed attack in the region on Saturday night.

The elephants entered the human inhabited areas in forest border around
10pm on Saturday, after destroying electric fencing in the region and the
animals mainly aimed at jack fruits.

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kozhikode/wild-elephant-electrocuted-from-power-fencing-in-moothedam/articleshow/64546516.cms