Endangered pygmy elephant shot dead for destroying crops on Borneo Island
(Malaysia)
Lisa Spear, Newsweek
July 26, 2018

See link
<https://www.newsweek.com/endangered-pygmy-elephant-shot-dead-destroying-crops-borneo-island-1043915>
for photo & tweet.

A villager in a remote settlement shot and killed an endangered pygmy
elephant on Borneo island after it destroyed palm oil trees.

Local wildlife officials are now investigating the elephant’s death after
the body was found on the side of a road Monday on the Malaysian part of
Borneo, a local wildlife department director Augustine Tuuga told the AFP.

“(The elephant) was killed out of revenge for destroying crops,” Tuuga said.

An autopsy of the body determined that its cause of death was from a bullet
hole in the right side of its abdomen.

"The wound was traced and it led to the finding of a bullet pellet inside
the abdomen," wildlife officials from Sabah Wildlife Department said in a
statement.

"Some parts of the intestines were torn. There was a severe internal
bleeding inside the abdomen suggesting several blood vessels were damaged,"
public relations officer Siti Nur’Ain Ampuan Acheh told The Star newspaper.

The wildlife official, Tuuga, called the killing "merciless."

Pygmy elephants are baby-faced with huge ears, plump bellies and long tails
that often drag on the ground. There are only an estimated 1,500 left in
the wild, according to environmental group the World Wide Fund for Nature
(WWF).

They roam the rainforest in Borneo, the world's third-largest island, which
is shared between Malaysia, Indonesia and Brunei.

There, these animals sometimes fall victim to poachers looking to harvest
the animal’s tusks to sell on the black market. But the creature that was
found dead on Monday had tusks that remained intact.

This is just one of many rare species one in the Malaysian rainforests that
have fallen dramatically in recent decades, according to the AFP.

Many species struggle to survive because of agriculture and settlements
encroaching on habitats. Poachers also hunt the animals for their body
parts that are often used in traditional Chinese medicine.

In May, six Borneo pygmy elephants were found dead in Malaysian palm oil
plantations. Wildlife officials thought that the animals might have
accidently consumed fertilizer. No wounds were found on their bodies, so
these animals might have been drinking from poisonous watering holes, The
Star newspaper reported at the time.

At least 18 pygmy elephants have been found dead in Malaysian Borneo since
April. Most of the animals were killed by poachers or from poisoning.

https://www.newsweek.com/endangered-pygmy-elephant-shot-dead-destroying-crops-borneo-island-1043915

