Rising number of elephant deaths disturbing, says Sabah DCM (Malaysia)
Durie Rainer Fong, Free Malaysia Today
August 14, 2018

See link
<http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2018/08/14/rising-number-of-elephant-deaths-disturbing-says-sabah-dcm/>
for photos.

KOTA KINABALU: Deputy Chief Minister Christina Liew is deeply disturbed by
the rising number of elephants dying in the wild in Sabah.

Liew, who is also tourism, culture and environment minister, has asked the
state Wildlife Department, which is under her purview, to take extra
measures to curb such deaths.

“I’d like to push the Wildlife Department to minimise these unfortunate
deaths,” she said on the sidelines of the state assembly sitting today.

“Members of the public find it very distressing to see these animals dying.

“We’re doing our best. We’ll be transparent so the public will know.”

Liew said the latest death was that of a baby elephant. Its carcass was
found in a river in Kinabatangan, on Sabah’s east coast, yesterday.

State Wildlife Department director Augustine Tuuga said a tourist boat
stumbled upon the baby elephant, believed to be about two years old in
Sukau, Kinabatangan.

“The team secured the elephant carcass to the river bank and we’ll send a
vet to conduct the post-mortem to determine the cause of death. Preliminary
findings show there were no injuries on the elephant’s body.

“Another report we received yesterday was the discovery of a male elephant
with injuries to its front leg, due to snare traps, near Taliwas, a
recreational area in Lahad Datu,” he said.

A rescue team, including veterinarians, were sent this morning to secure
and treat the wounded animal, he added.

There have been several reported deaths of elephants in recent months. A
young male Borneo pygmy elephant, believed to have been shot dead, was
found in Tongod, a district in the heart of Sabah, in July.

The same month, another elephant was found dead in an oil palm plantation
in Ulu Segama, Lahad Datu. The elephant died due to a wound infection in
its foot, caused by a snare trap.

http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2018/08/14/rising-number-of-elephant-deaths-disturbing-says-sabah-dcm/