Another elephant goes down to human callousness (India)
Kumar Sarkar, MeriNews
July 23, 2008

PACHYDERMS IN North Bengal are being killed ruthlessly either by villagers or by the callousness of train drivers. A week ago three elephants were poisoned to death inside the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary in North Bengal. An elephant calf was run over by a train in the same sanctuary on Tuesday. The calf was run over in the Gulma range area of the sanctuary by the Guwahati-Jhaja Express. The calf was seven year-old.
 
The accident occurred in the wee hours of the morning. The poisoning and running over by a train apart, at least three elephants were shot dead by soldiers of the Nepalese Army last month when the pachyderms strayed into Nepal. Elephants are known to stray into the neighbouring country in search of food.

The conservator of forest (northern circle), wildlife, will inquire into the death, local media reported.  The Union Ministry of Environment is being kept informed. A running battle has been on between the Railway and Environment Ministry, given that this is not the first time an elephant has been run over by trains in North Bengal. The West Bengal Forest Department has been after the Railway Minister for a long time to caution train drivers on the stretch to travel slowly because the pachyderms quite often stray on to the tracks.
 
The issue is not new and has become a bone of contention.  A public interest litigation was filed in the Calcutta High Court.  On the basis of a court order a special inspection tam surveyed the area and the railways were asked to issue instructions to drivers to slow down when passing through this area. Though a parallel railway track bypasses the forest good trains are not directed along it.

The railways continue to treat elephant deaths on the track casually. According to the forest department on an average as many as four elephants are killed in the sanctuary area.

The railway lines wend their way through the Mahananda, Chapramari and Jaldapara sanctuaries and the Buxa Tiger Reserve in North Bengal known for its flora and fauna. In effect the railway tracks cut across what is known as the elephant corridor stretching from North Bengal and Sankosh in Assam to Mechi in Nepal. The railway tracks on the stretch were metre gauge till 2001 after which it was converted to broad gauge, protests from environmentalists notwithstanding.