Jumbo shot dead in Dhenkanal (State of Odisha, India)
The Orissa Post
October 2, 2018

See link <http://www.orissapost.com/jumbo-shot-dead-in-dhenkanal/> for
photo.

DHENKANAL: Acting on a tip-off, Forest Department personnel recovered the
carcass of a female elephant from a forest near Mahajan Taila village under
Mahabirod forest range in Dhenkanal forest division Tuesday morning.

Preliminary probe revealed the pachyderm was shot dead by unidentified
poachers. The animal bore two bullet injuries – one near its right eye and
another on the right side of its stomach.

According to villagers, a herd comprising over 15 elephants currently
inhabits the Mahabirod forest and it often strays into the village during
nights and cause havoc.

The pachyderms feed on standing paddy crop and destroy vegetables. Earlier,
the villagers had informed the Forest Department officials about the
presence of the jumbos, but no steps were taken to drive the marauding
animals.

Repeated attacks by the elephants also made the local villagers suffer
losses as several acres of farmlands were damaged. Similarly, the
pachyderms also vandalised many houses.

While no exact reason of the killing has been ascertained yet, rumours are
doing the round that the animal might have been killed by some villagers to
vent their anger over the losses caused by the herd. On the other hand,
some suspected it was the act of some poachers.

On being informed, Mahabirod Ranger Suresh Chandra Behera and Dadaraghati
Forester Ramchandra Rout along with other Forest Department officials
reached the spot and started an investigation into the pachyderm’s death.

The officials conducted the autopsy of the carcass and buried it in the
forest. When contacted, Ranger Behera said that a probe was on and those
behind the heinous act would be arrested soon and action would be taken as
per law.

On the other hand, villagers held the negligent attitude of the Forest
Department officials responsible for the death of the pachyderm.

“Had the Forest Department officials been vigilant regarding the movement
of the herd and taken necessary steps to drive the herd into the forest,
the pachyderm would have been alive now,” a local farmer said.