Assam: Elephant calf carcass recovered in Baksa (India)
Dipak KR Pathak, Northeast Now
October 5, 2018

See link
<https://nenow.in/north-east-news/assam-elephant-calf-carcass-recovered-baksa.html>
for photo.

The carcass of a baby elephant (wild) was recovered on Thursday morning
along the bank of the river Barnodi in No 1 Bagrikhuti Village under
Nagrijuli Police Outpost under the jurisdiction of Tamulpur Forest Range
Office in the district of Baksa (Assam).

Few villagers saw the caracass of the elephant calf lying near a paddy
field along the bank of the river Barnodi early in the morning on Thursday.
The news spread like wild fire and very soon a huge crowd gathered at the
spot to take a look at the baby elephant’s carcass. A lot of villagers shed
tears over the tusker’s death and few paid floral tributes.

The local people informed the personnel posted at Nagrijuli Police Outpost
and the Forest Department authorities about the elephant carcass.

Nikhil Singha, In-charge of the outpost came to the spot with a police
team. A team of Forest Department officials also rushed to the spot and
started investigations to find out the exact cause behind the death of the
elephant calf (wild). But, the Forest Department personnel could not
ascertain the exact cause behind the baby elephant’s death.

Later, a veterinary doctor was called in to conduct postmortem following
which the carcass of the calf was buried on the spot with the help of the
villagers.

The villagers stated that a herd of wild elephants were seen moving in the
Nagrijuli area few days back. It is reported that on Wednesday night, a
herd of wild elephants had entered No 1 Bagrikhuti Village and had
“feasted” on a huge stretch of paddy fields and destroyed the same.

It is suspected that the elephant calf might have entered the said village
with the herd and might have been killed by irate villagers.

It may be mentioned that man-elephant conflict is taking alarming
proportions in Assam. With the human population rising by the day and
people settling on elephant corridors, the tuskers are being compelled to
come out in the open in search of food and, in the process, destroying
human hutments and paddy fields.
