Deepening pathway to prevent elephant deaths (State of Tamil Nadu, India)
Sanjana Ganesh, The Hindu
December 2, 2018

See link
<https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/deepening-pathway-to-prevent-elephant-deaths/article25646458.ece>
for photos.

Officials said that high voltage transmission lines running through the
area, suspended at a height of seven to nine feet, had caused death of five
elephants.

Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation Limited (TANTRANSCO) has begun
deepening the ground under the low-lying power transmission line at the
spot in the Meghamalai Reserve Forest where five elephants were
electrocuted in a span of three months.

Officials said deepening the stretch would prevent further deaths.

The initiative was taken after the death of two elephants, aged between
seven and 12, on Monday.

All the five elephants met their end at the same spot at Tower Saragam in
Cumbum East Range of Venniyar Reserve Forest.

S. Kalanithi, Wildlife Warden, Meghamalai Wildlife Sanctuary, said the
extra high voltage transmission lines running through the area, suspended
at a height of seven to nine feet, had caused the death.

A senior official said a 40-metre-long and 10-metre-wide pathway with a
maximum depth of seven metres will be dug by manually removing the rocks.

“The Forest department has not given us permission for blasting,” he added.

Twenty TANTRANSCO employees with the permission of the Forest Department
did a survey at the spot on Saturday to chart out the pathway, he said.

The officer said the transmission lines running through Venniyar Estate are
part of a hydroelectric project and were laid in 1958, adding that several
factors make it difficult to raise the height of the transmission lines, an
alternative solution demanded by environmental activists.

“It may be difficult to gauge the status of the lines as they are old. The
tower weighs at least 10 tonnes and it will have to be carried manually for
more than 10 km. The completion will take a long time. The construction of
the tower too demands deepening of the ground by about four metres to lay a
foundation,” he said.

‘Permanent Solution’

On the contrary, he said that the deepening of the ground under the
transmission line can be easily implemented and it can act as a permanent
solution.

Environmentalists, however, raised furore over the proposal and claimed
that manually removing the rocks would require permission from the National
Board for Wildlife, part of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate
Change as they would be altering the landscape.

Denying that permission was provided to TANTRANSCO’s proposal, Mr.
Kalanithi said the team from the department had only visited the spot but
did not start work.

He said that the department wanted to raise the height of the line between
23 to 30 feet by installing a tower depending on the slope.

When asked if measures have been taken by the Forest Department to prevent
elephant deaths, he said, “We have begun temporary work but the details
cannot be disclosed.”

The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests was unavailable for comment.
