Two tuskers, one leopard found dead in Haridwar (State of Uttarakhand,
India)
Nihi Sharma, Hindustan Times
April 9, 2018

See link
<https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/two-tuskers-one-leopard-found-dead-in-haridwar/story-D3eZff4wbYbyOlLpHhNj7M.html>
for photo.

Carcasses of two tuskers and a leopard were found from Haridwar forest
division, adjoining Rajaji Tiger Reserve, within a span of 24 hours, a
forest official said on Monday.

One of the tuskers was electrocuted while the other pachyderm and the
leopard cub died of natural causes, the official said.

A tusker of about 18 years old was electrocuted on Monday afternoon in a
wheat field in Jeopota village, Pathri range of Haridwar forest division.

The owner of the wheat field, Rajendra Chauan, had left high tension wires
in the field. The forest department has booked him under The Wildlife
Protection Act, 1972.

“We are searching for the farmer on whose field the incident happened. He
is non-traceable,” said Akash Varma, divisional forest officer (DFO),
Haridwar.

People close to the matter said many farmers have put electric wires in
their farms to keep wild animals like leopards, monkeys and even elephants
at bay.

However, the farmers were never briefed on the current restriction owing to
which this animal died.

The act of putting electric wires in the field is termed as ‘hunting’ and
therefore, if needed the officers will also take support from the police in
this regard.

Another tusker was found dead on Sunday night near Jhilmil Jheel
Consevation Reserve. It had fallen into a pit.

When the forest staff tried to approach the pit late in the night, the
herds kept them away from rescuing the animal. On Monday morning, when the
staff reached the spot, the 15-year-old healthy tusker had died.

“The animal must have fallen into the pit because of which it died. The
post-mortem report could confirm the actual reason of its death,” Varma
said.

With this, Uttarakhand lost 6 elephants so far. Three deaths were reported
from Rajaji, one from Haldwani and two from Haridwar range.

The state reported 1,346 wild elephants in 2012 which swelled to 1,839 in
2017 national census.

Meanwhile, the carcass of a leopard cub was recovered from Rasiabad area of
the division.

Preliminary investigation said the animal had parasites and maggots inside
its elementary canal and it was very weak. Cubs below 2 years old remain
vulnerable in forest and often weak ones are abandoned by their mothers,
scientists said.

https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/two-tuskers-one-leopard-found-dead-in-haridwar/story-D3eZff4wbYbyOlLpHhNj7M.html