RANCHI: A wild elephant, spotted two days ago with landmine blast injuries
at Baresand in Palamau Tiger Reserve, has indicated the presence of
Left-wing extremists in Latehar's fabled animal hub hitherto not known to
be a sanctuary for Left-wing extremists.

Birsa zoo veterinary doctor Ajay Kumar, who rushed to Baresand on Saturday
for treating the tusker, said it was probably injured in a landmine
explosion on December 30 or 31 and was recovering without the help of
medication.

The incident confirms the presence of Maoist rebels in Palamau Tiger
Reserve area despite intensive combing operations. The rebels continue to
lay landmine traps that ate targetted at security forces but often end up
harming wild animals.

ADG (operations)-cum-police headquarter senior spokesman R.K. Mallick said
that all efforts were being made to flush out the rebels from the area.

In September 2017, an elephant succumbed to the injuries it sustained after
stepping on a landmine in Burha Pahar area, highlighting how vulnerable
animals in and around the tiger reserve are to continuing police-rebel
conflicts.

"The elephant is freely moving its legs and grazing. He also chases away
people trying to approach him. He seems to be enjoying his life in the
forest. There is no need to disturb him," Kumar said.

He feels giving medicines after administering tranquillisers may affect the
natural healing process.

"We came here fully prepared to begin treatment after tranquillising the
elephant, but we noticed that he was not bleeding. Rather he was moving
around without any problem," Kumar said.

The latest incident also underscores the necessity of a veterinary doctor
at the Palamau reserve, which has to fall back on Birsa zoo whenever an
ailing or injured animal is spotted.

A few months back, an ailing sambhar (spotted deer with long horns) was
spotted in the reserve. It died by the time a vet from Ranchi arrived after
around three days," a local reporter said.

https://www.telegraphindia.com/states/jharkhand/hurt-tusker-hints-at-rebels-201099