Elephant Suffocates to Death, Officials Prefer to Stay Indoors (India)
The Statesman
January 6, 2010 

ANGUL, 5 JAN: An adult female elephant suffocated to death in a well after struggling for 12 hours to wriggle out, at Saluikham village, about one and half km away from Chhendipada forest range office. A pall of gloom descended on the area after the elephants death, which took place last morning.

All her struggle went in vain with forest, police and fire service department virtually turning a deaf ear to the repeated pleas of the locals to rescue the distressed pachyderm.

What brought tears in the eyes of the helpless spectators was that the calf of the trapped animal was making fervent pleas to the people to rescue its mother. The child elephant was pulling people to come to its mother who had fallen in the well. Sometimes, it also tried to collect woods and threw towards her mother in a bid to help her come out.

However, the struggle of both mother and child failed, much to the shock, dismay and anger of the people.

The villagers informed that the herd of elephants had strayed into the village on Sunday night. After being chased by people by crackers, all the animals dispersed except one elephant which fell into a three meter deep well with almost five of feet water. Her baby child stayed with her instead of fleeing with others. From 9 p.m. on Sunday, the elephant and its calf screamed for help but nobody turned up in fear.

The villagers alleged that they made frantic calls to ranger officer who reportedly was at Angul at that time. They also called Chhendipada police station who advised them to get in touch with forest officials. They also made calls to Angul fire station officials who could rescue the animal but they also did not turn up.

After struggling for the whole night the elephant finally died in the well, at about 8 a.m. on Monday. According to the report, the elephant in its bid to extricate itself, got trapped in the mud with her legs and truck stuck. The animal then suffocated and succumbed.

The forest department officials then rescued the calf and left it at the nearby forest where a herd reportedly took her back. Locals were aghast over the lackadaisical attitude of the government officials. The villagers, though they always complain that the elephant herds destroy properties and crops during harvest period, mourned the death of the animal and demanded stern action against the erring officials.
Article at the following link:
http://www.thestatesman.net/page.arcview.php?clid=9&id=313200&usrsess=1