Elephant shot dead in Krishnagiri (India)
P. V. Srividya, The Hindu
January 11, 2017

See link
<http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/Elephant-shot-dead-in-Krishnagiri/article17021948.ece>
for photo.

A 25-year-old female elephant was shot dead by two men in Ulipanda village
on the fringes of Jawalagiri reserve forest on Monday night.

The animal was found dead with two bullet injuries on its forehead on
Tuesday morning by the locals, who alerted the officials. The elephant was
part of a small migratory herd from the North Cauvery Wild Life Sanctuary
that stretches from Karnataka to Tamil Nadu.

The accused, whose identity was not known, were from the same village and
had allegedly indulged in wild boar hunting in Ulipanda in the past.
Hunting of wild boars is an offence in Tamil Nadu, though the Central
government has declared the species to be vermin in a few States.

On Monday night, the accused A.Basavaraj (34), son of Anumadhappa, and his
friend T.Madesh, son of Thimmarayappa, were reportedly waiting in a tomato
field. Basavaraj had taken the land adjoining the tomato field on lease for
cultivation.

When the duo and three other men were waiting for the wild boar, they
spotted the elephant grazing afar. Basavaraj allegedly used his
country-made gun to shoot down the elephant.

On Tuesday morning, a team consisting of officials from the Forest
Department, including Conservator of Forests, Dharmapuri, Ashish Kumar
Srivastava, District Forest officer, Hosur, Rajendran, along with Hosur Sub
Collector Senthil Raju, accompanied by the police reached Ulipanda on
receiving the alert from locals.

The Forest Department has booked the men under Section 9, 39 and 51 of Wild
Life Protection Act, 1972, and under Section 25(1)(A) of the Indian Arms
Act 1959; and under Section 9 B (1) (b) Indian Explosive Substance Act ,
1908.

The police arrested Madesh and picked up two others in the village, while
the prime accused, Basavaraj, is not traceable.

‘Firing unprovoked’

Mr. Srivastava told The Hindu that the accused could not have shot the
elephant in “self-defence” as there were no signs of aggression.

A Revenue Department official similarly, said the the accused had taken
time to aim at the head of the elephant that was grazing at a distance.

A parallel report will be submitted by the Revenue Department to the
government.

The three-tonne elephant could not be shifted along the difficult
unmotorable terrain of the village. Hence, an autopsy was conducted on the
spot and was buried at the same spot.

Quite a few instances of shooting with illegal country-made guns in Thally
and Denkanikottai area were reported over personal enmity.