Iconic elephant dies after falling into pit at Gudalur
Rohan Premkumar, The Hindu
August 25, 2018

See link
<https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/iconic-elephant-dies-after-falling-into-pit-at-gudalur/article24774856.ece>for
photo.

Locals say Nadodi Ganesan’s leg got stuck when it was being chased into
forest
For over 50 years, Nadodi Ganesan co-existed peacefully among the hundreds
of human settlements in the O-Valley and Bitherkad forest ranges of Gudalur
and Pandalur. On Friday, the elephant’s luck finally ran out.

The makhna or tusk-less elephant, known for becoming so acclimatised to
living near humans that locals even fed it, died after getting stuck in a
sewage pit in Kurinji Nagar in the O-Valley Forest Range.

Forest Department officials said that the elephant, believed to be among
the oldest in the region, aged between 50 and 55 years, had entered the
settlement late on Thursday.

Locals said that the animal was being chased back into the forest to
prevent it from damaging houses and crops when one of its front legs got
stuck in the sewage pit.

V.C. Rahul, District Forest Officer (Gudalur Division), said that when
forest staff arrived, the animal had a faint pulse, and by the time efforts
were mounted to try and rescue the animal using an earth mover, it had died
from its injuries.

David Mohan, a veterinarian from the Animal Husbandry Department, performed
an autopsy on the animal. Forest department officials confirmed that the
elephant died from an injury to the chest.

Forest staff, locals and conservationists who have worked with the elephant
and lived alongside it voiced their sadness. C. Manoharan, Forest Range
Officer, Bitherkad Range, who was part of the effort to treat Nadodi
Ganesan a few months ago when it got injured, said that there was a great
feeling of loss among local staff who had grown attached to the animal.

“We were tracking its movements a few months ago, when the animal moved
away from its home range in Bitherkad and went to O-Valley. We expected
Nadodi Ganesan to return later this year and were preparing to endure some
sleepless nights to try and chase him away from entering farmlands in the
area,” he added.

‘Biggest’ in the region

Tarsh Thekaekara, a conservationist from the Shola Trust, said that Nadodi
Ganesan had become synonymous with the landscape. “Even now, if you look
for pictures of human-animal conflict in Gudalur online, chances are that
you will stumble upon a photo of Nadodi Ganesan. Almost everyone in the
region knows him, as he is also the biggest elephant in the landscape,
standing at just over 10 feet,” said Mr. Thekaekara.

Forest department staff buried the carcass of the animal after completion
of the autopsy.

https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/iconic-elephant-dies-after-falling-into-pit-at-gudalur/article24774856.ece