Elephant Dies During Capture (Indonesia)
By Jakarta Globe 
January 3, 2014.

A Sumatran elephant relocated by officials from Riau’s Rokan Hulu district to the Minas Elephant Conservation Center as part of efforts to reduce conflicts with local residents died on Wednesday.

“We’re waiting for results of the autopsy to know the cause of death,” Zanir, the head of the Riau Natural Resources Conservation Agency (BKSDA), said as quoted by Tempo.

The BKSDA had relocated the 20-year-old female elephant along with two other elephants from Rokan Hulu to the conservation center on Sunday.

According to Zanir, the elephant fell unconscious after being shot with a tranquilizer dart, part of the standard relocation procedure, but denied that she had died because of an overdose of tranquilizer.

“Usually elephants would regain consciousness about 15 hours after the shot. But instead, she died,” Zanir said. “It’s not true [that she overdosed]. We have had years of professional experience in safely capturing elephants.”

He also said the elephant’s capture and impending relocation was conducted upon the request of the local residents, who wished to minimize the potential for conflict between humans and elephants.

Azwar Habidina, the head of the Minas conservation center, said officials had done their best to resuscitate the elephant and save its life.

“Despite our efforts to revive the elephant, it no longer had a pulse and was no longer breathing,” Azwar said as quoted by state news agency Antara.

He added that officials were assuming the elephant had been extremely ill and may have suffered from obesity prior to her death.

“This will be something for the Forestry Ministry and the regional government to evaluate and consider; sometimes the evacuation process, despite being aimed at saving [the elephants] and despite all the  precautions, can worsen the animals’ condition and result in death,” Azwar said.

“This case has given us second thoughts about relocating wild elephants living in Rokan Hulu district. We are disappointed by this development.”

He added that the conservation center had submitted an official report on the incident to the Forestry Ministry’s Directorate General of Forest Protection and Natural Conservation.