Lone Indian tusker shot down in Bangladesh, raises a storm of protests
(India)
by Subrata Nagchowdhury, Indian Express
April 21, 2015

While cross-border infiltration of humans has been a hotly debated issue
between Bangladesh and India and particularly West Bengal, this time the
gruesome killing of an Indian lone tusker that strayed into Rajsahi
district of Bangladesh from Murshidabad district of West Bengal has raised
a storm of protests.
The Bangladesh Border Guards pumped 34 bullets into the tusker and it died
instantly on Monday afternoon.The carcass was buried immediately by the BBG
and later they informed the Indian officials about the killing. It all
happened when a West Bengal wildlife team had reached the border with
tranquilising guns to bring back the elephant into West Bengal. “But
unfortunately we did not get an opportunity,” said member of the team.
The West Bengal Wildlife officials plan to lodge a report to the Project
Elephant drawing its attention to the tragic and brutal killing of the
elephant and to take up the issue with the wildlife wing of both the
countries.
The Indian tusker (Wildlife officials like to describe it as an Asiatic
elephant) from the Dalma range of Jharkhand had strayed and travelled over
500 kilometer through several districts of West Bengal to finally cross
over into Bangladesh having swam across the mighty Padma river at a place
called Nimtita in Murshidabad district of West Bengal yesterday morning.
On the Bangladesh side, the Bangladesh Border Guards (BBG) taken aback by
this unusual intrusion tracked it sometime before pumping 34 bullets into
the pachyderm, killing it on the spot. It had 2-feet long tusks and was
described by West Bengal Wildlife officials as a young lone tusker that
somehow had got detached from its herd.
A top official of the West Bengal Wildlife wing rued that its team was
ready on the border to cross-over and drive back the elephant, but the BBG
allegedly did not give any time and defended their action saying it was
about to enter a village and there was fear of loss of lives. After killing
the elephant, the BBG dug a grave to bury it, too.
The director, Project Elephant, R K Srivastava, when contacted said that he
was yet to receive any report regarding this tragic killing of an elephant.
But should the West Bengal Wildlife wing lodge any complaint with the
Project Elephant, it would definitely initiate actions to take up the
matter with the Bangladesh government at the highest level, said Srivastava.
He, however, pointed out that trans-border measures to deal with such
problem with Bangladesh government are at a very preliminary stage but it
had been initiated. He said “there was little that the West Bengal Wildlife
wing could do against the ‘crime’ committed in Bangladesh by the killing of
the endangered animal. After all, Indian Wildlife Acts are not valid in
Bangladesh,” Srivastava said.
Mr M.K.Nandy a former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests in West Bengal
had been working on finding solution to a similar problem but with greater
a magnitude – that of migration of elephant herds from West Bengal to Nepal
and vice versa. While in Bengal there are strict laws and adherence to
rules for wild life protection, in Nepal the response on several occasions
had been similar to what Bangladesh had done.
The Nepal Army used to fire upon the elephant herds (they used to describe
these as ‘Indian Elephants’) indiscriminately to drive them back into the
North Bengal forests. On several occasions the aftermath had been
disastrous. Injured elephants hit by bullets created havoc in North Bengal,
killing men and women in fits of rage after being injured in such firing
incidents by the Nepal Army, police and forest guards.
Nandy said that the WWF has provided some funds to the West Bengal forests
department to set up wire fencings along Mechi river that divides Nepal and
North Bengal near Siliguri. He further said that a project funded by the US
Fish and Wildlife wing on this atrocity on elephants and ways to stop it is
underway between officials of the two countries and the first phase has
been completed.
The completion of the project should see more restrained and rational
responses to such migration of elephants, he said.  It was known form
elephants experts that there are about 138 interstate elephant migration
routes within Indian while there are