Elephants trample two in Assam, villagers kill beast
Webindia123.com
June 27, 2005

Guwahati, June 27 : Two people were trampled to death by wild elephants and 
a pachyderm was brutally speared to death by angry villagers in Assam, 
wildlife officials Monday said.

A wildlife warden said six elephants entered the Letukajan tea garden in 
Golaghat district, about 300 km east of the state's main city of Guwahati, 
on Sunday.

"The herd went on a rampage in the tea plantation before entering the colony 
housing garden workers," wildlife official D. Sharma said. The elephants 
tore apart mud-and-thatch huts and killed two people.

"A mother and her 18-month-old daughter were trampled to death by the 
elephants," Sharma said.

The herd left the garden after destroying at least a dozen huts and damaging 
tea crops.

In another incident in northern Assam's Udalguri district, villagers 
attacked and killed a seven-year-old male elephant that strayed from its 
herd and entered a tea plantation.

"It appears from the post mortem report that the elephant was first poisoned 
and then pierced with a hot iron rod," Kushal Konwar Sharma, a noted 
elephant expert and teacher at the College of Veterinary Science here, said. 
Sharma said the lone elephant was grazing in a paddy field close to a tea 
garden when villagers sprayed toxic chemicals in the area.

"The elephant must have been already affected by the chemicals and was in 
pain when some people pierced one of his forelegs with a hot iron rod that 
ultimately brought the animal down," Sharma said.

Elephant herds often stray out of their habitats for food and enter human 
settlement areas, resulting in such incidents. This has resulted in the 
death of 600 people and 275 elephants between 1990 and 2004.

In the past four years alone, villagers have killed 120 elephants - many of 
the animals being done to death with poisoned-tipped arrows or with food 
laced with toxic chemicals, an Assam government report says.

There are an estimated 5,500 wild elephants in Assam, out of India's total 
pachyderm population of 10,000.

"The man-elephant conflict has assumed frightening proportions," an official 
said.

Elephants in Assam are squeezed for living space and are stressed by 
development, thus growing increasingly violent.

Satellite imagery showed that as many as 45,850 hectares of thick forests 
were cleared by human encroachers between 1996 and 2000, leading to the 
breakup of traditional elephant corridors and their habitat.

"There has been fragmentation in the elephant habitat due to human 
settlements. We are trying to improve the situation by evicting illegal 
encroachers," Forest Minister Pradyut Bordoloi said.