Poisoning' kills one more jumbo in Palamu Tiger Reserve (India)

Times of India

Dec 26, 2013



DALTONGANJ: A female elephant is suspected to have been poisoned in the buffer area of Palamu Tiger Reserve. The body was found on Monday and was buried later that day at the same place as dead elephants are not carried on shoulders like human beings. The news of its death was known a day after on the night of December 24.



The body showed no signs of any external injury. There were no gunshot wounds either, said sources.



Confirming the death of the female elephant, Anil K Mishra, DFO buffer area, said PTR officials are awaiting the postmortem report. It is being suspected that the female elephant may have been poisoned as the body bore no sign of any external injury like gun wound, he said.



He added that the place where the body has been discovered is quite close to Kujrum village, where elephants frequently go on a rampage. The female elephant could have become a victim of man-animal conflict. There is no question of poaching since female elephants do not have tusks. Elephants are poached for tusks, he said.



The year 2013 was a rather bad one for elephants in the tiger reserve. Two adult male elephants were found dead under mysterious conditions inside Betla National Park, which is a core area, in October and November.



They remained unattended for two weeks and none of the forest guards, foresters or rangers could get any nauseating odour of the two. When they were discovered, their bodies had decomposed to such an that they were not even fit for postmortem, said field director S E H Kazmi.



None of the elephants in 2013 died by coming under the wheels of the trains here as there is a bridge Jawa, which the elephants cross frequently. The railway lines of the Coal India Chord section pass through the bridge.



Quizzed about the female elephant having died either on December 21 or 22, but its body being discovered only on December 23 followed by burial on the same day, Mishra said: "Once a female elephant falls on the ground, it is immediately surrounded by other elephants. These elephants do all that it takes to prop up the fallen one. When too many elephants are around, nothing can be done." Tuskers usually come to the rescue of elephants in distress, but abandon it if it fails to respond to their move, said MIshra.



The DFO said in the event of elephants giving birth, other elephants lay a siege like a protective curtain for the elephant delivering the baby.
