3 more elephant carcasses recovered from Edamalayar forest (India)
The Hindu
August 13, 2015

The Forest Department probing the Edamalayar elephant poaching case has
recovered the carcass of three more elephants, allegedly gunned down by the
poaching gang led by Aikkaramuttom Vasu.

With this, the total number of elephants killed by the poachers has reached
nine.

Officials said the carcasses of two elephants were spotted in the
Ekkakauzhy region near the Athirappilly forests while the third one was
found inside the Vazhachal forest division.

The carcasses were found during a search by the department, which took Jijo
and Eldhose, key members of the poaching gang, along with them.

“The focus of the search will now be on the Athirappilly and Vazhachal
regions, where the poachers reportedly hunted more elephants.

However, the huge concentration of wild elephants combined with adverse
weather conditions in the area is preventing us from extensive combing of
the area’’, said a senior forest official with the Malayattur forest
division.

The department has so far arrested 28 persons in connection with the case
and is on the lookout for six more for allegedly helping the poachers to go
into hiding.

Meanwhile, yet another person arrested in connection with the case had been
admitted to the Muvattupuzha general hospital, allegedly following
custodial torture.

The latest to be hospitalised is Aji Bright, 12th accused in the case,
sources said.

While reports suggesting that Aji suffered serious injuries to his spinal
code have come out, the hospital authorities refused to share the details.

“Aji was admitted to hospital two days back and was discharged on Wednesday.

We cannot share any details about his treatment at this point of time’’,
said Dr George, Regional Medical Officer, Muvattupuzha.

Earlier, three others, Prinston Silva, Sukumaran and Manoj, were also
hospitalised allegedly after being injured in custody of the forest
department.

“All the arrested persons have invariably sustained injuries below the
knees’’, pointed out C.P Udayabhanu, counsel for Manoj, owner of the
farmhouse where Vasu was found hanging.

The forest officials, meanwhile, denied the reports and pointed out that
the accused had not raised it in the court.

The carcasses were found during a search by the department, which took Jijo
and Eldhose, key members of the poaching gang, along with them.