Elephant calf shot, hacked to death by villagers (India)
Pinak Priya Bhattacharya, Times of India
June 13, 2012

SILIGURI: A six-month-old elephant calf was first shot at its hind leg and was later hacked to death after it crossed the Mechi river to enter Nepal on Monday night. The calf, which had raided a maize field with a herd, was attacked by some locals with sharp weapons.

The foresters have identified another injured female elephant from the same herd, which was last located in the forests of Kalabari. The incident took place at Aldangi village in Nepal's Jhapa district. The villagers allegedly opened fire at the herd that had crossed over to Nepal from Kalabari forests in Bengal's Naxalbari area. The herd managed to retreat into the Indian territory except the calf, which fell on the ground and became an easy prey to the villagers.

While talking about the injured pachyderm, DFO of Kurseong, Y T Aden, said: ""We are trying to find the type of injury the female elephant has sustained. It may be a bullet injury or a wound from sharp weapon. We have to treat the animal as early as possible, which is a very difficult task.""

Foresters fear that there may be more injured elephants in the herd. ""In the past, we have found many elephants with bullet injuries which were shot in Nepal. So, we cannot rule out possibilities of more elephants being injured in Monday night's incident,"" a forest guard in Kalabari said.

In February, an adult female elephant had suffered bullet injury in Nepal and died in Sukna forest because of septicaemia. The incident took place at Bamandangi village, a small settlement along the Indo-Nepal border in eastern Nepal's Jhapa district. Aldangi village is also close to Bamandangi.

In last four years, eight elephants were killed and 20 were injured after herds entered Nepal. Two other elephants were electrocuted after they came in contact with electric wires, which the villagers of Bamandangi had laid on the banks of Mechi river that flows along the Indo-Nepal border and

works as a natural barrier against elephants trying to enter Nepal.

Elephants from India generally enter Nepal twice a year - during the monsoons and in the November-December, when farmers harvest their second crop of the year. The region is a part of their conventional corridor from Mechi in Nepal to Sankosh in Assam. On their way, they often depredate human habitats in search of food, which sometimes also results in loss of human lives.

According to reports, people in Nepal, living along the Indo-Nepal border areas, consider the animals as 'Indians' and are not ready to suffer. It is therefore, whenever they cross over to Nepal, villagers open fire at the pachyderms and also lay electric wires along the Mechi river.

""Only the Centre can take up the matter. They should immediately ask Nepal government to take appropriate steps to curb such killings. We are ready to help Nepal forest department, but the thing has to be arranged by Delhi and Kathmandu"", a senior forest official said.

An elephant calf, merely six months old, was first shot in its hind left leg and when the animal fell down, villagers pounced on it with sharp weapons and hacked it to death. Its fault - it had dared to cross the Mechi River and enter Nepal along with a herd to raid a maize field.
Article at the following link:
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kolkata/Elephant-calf-shot-hacked-to-death-by-villagers/articleshow/14070244.cms