Plantations in Sabah losing millions because of elephants (Malaysia)
Tracy Patrick, Free Malaysia Today
September 30, 2017

See link
<http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2017/09/30/plantations-in-sabah-losing-millions-because-of-elephants/>
for photos.

KOTA KINABALU: Oil palm plantations are losing millions from damaged crops,
sometimes spanning 30 hectares in total, when elephant herds raid the area,
says the Sabah Wildlife Department.

Its director Augustine Tuuga told FMT that smallholders were hit the
hardest as they could sometimes lose up to six hectares of crops in just
one night.

“Elephant raids are a major problem for plantations in areas where
elephants are found.

“These herds damage oil palm trees and eat the shoots, causing the
companies to incur big losses,” he said, adding that Sabah Softwood Bhd for
example, reported a loss of RM3 million a few years back.

He said that the problem of elephant raids had become so dire that most of
the department’s ground staff were in Kg Gambaron in Telupid to deal with
the issue, bringing to a virtual standstill, investigations into the recent
case of suspected poaching in Kinabatangan.

The department estimated that there were only 2,000 Borneo pygmy elephants
left in Sabah and although the number was considered acceptable to many,
Tuuga said he was cautious about their survival rates if poaching continued
unabated.

He conceded that most of the elephant poachers were locals, who killed the
endangered animals mainly for their tusks.

“We found that these tusks were sold overseas but many also sold them to
the Timorese who have a custom of offering elephant tusks as dowries.”

On Thursday, the department released a statement that it was investigating
suspected poaching activities after an elephant carcass was found floating
in the Kinabatangan River near Sg Koyah on Monday.

The carcass was found by a tourist guide, who was with a group of four
foreign tourists on a river cruise in the area.

The elephant carcass was later brought to land where a post mortem was
conducted by the department’s veterinary officer.

In the statement, Tuuga said the elephant had been identified as a male,
estimated around 15-20 years old, and believed to have died or been killed
three days earlier.

Initial examinations found that both tusks were missing with evidence of a
clean cut at the area. The elephant’s left hind limb was also missing with
signs of a clean cut with a sharp object. Part of the skin of the left side
of the body had also been removed with a sharp object.

“The post mortem did not find any evidence of a gunshot wound on the body.
Although no evidence has been gathered so far, and in the absence of a
gunshot wound on the body, it is likely that the animal was caught in a
snare trap that eventually caused it to die of exhaustion,” he said.

The department is focusing its investigation on determining the most likely
location in which the elephant died or had been killed upstream of the
Kinabatangan River in which the carcass was thrown into.

This latest killing is the sixth reported pygmy elephant death in Sabah
this year including the death of a sabre-tusked bull called Sabre in
January, just three months after it was collared by the Danau Girang Field
Centre (DGFC) and Wildlife Rescue Unit (WRU).

Apart from poachers, many suspect the elephants were killed by farm workers
or plantation owners incensed by the damage caused to their crops.

In a separate development, Tuuga said the department was still trying to
track down suspects in the turtle poaching case of Bum Bum Island.

He explained that despite evidence that the activity had been going on for
quite some time, the department only became aware of it from information
they obtained on Facebook.

“We do not have an office or boat in Semporna and we only investigated the
case because of the viral photo. We held our World Turtle Day celebration
in Bum Bum in May this year to create awareness among the community there
on the importance of conserving turtles.

“In a way, I think it was quite effective because otherwise, they would
have just kept quiet and not shared their concerns on social media,” he
said.
