Elephant that killed 15 people in Jharkhand and Bihar shot dead (Sahebganj
District, India)
Sanjoy Dey, Hindustan Times
August 12, 2017

See link
<http://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/elephant-that-killed-15-people-in-jharkhand-and-bihar-shot-dead/story-0NJzf13weLvjN2bkzJEK2H.html>
for photos.

The ‘rogue’ elephant that had killed 15 people -- 11 in Jharkhand and 4 in
Bihar -- was shot dead on Friday, said principal chief conservator of
forest (Wildlife) LR Singh.

A day before the World Elephant Day, hunter Nawab Safath Ali Khan, who had
been called from Hyderabad, fired two bullets on the head the animal from a
distance of just 10 meters. The elephant died with minutes.

Forest officials said Khan and veterinarian Dr Ajay Kumar had tracked the
elephant near Banjali village in Jharkhand’s Sahebganj district.

Dr Kumar had tried to tranquillize the elephant from a distance of 30
meters. But, the pachyderm suddenly ran to charge them. The officials said
before the elephant could reach them, Khan shot two bullets on its head,
and it fell on the ground.

The wildlife wing of the Jharkhand forest department had on Thursday
evening issued a shoot-at-sight order after finding no alternative to
protect the elephant.

Principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) LR Singh said a 12-member
elephant-chasing squad from West Bengal and teams of experts, villagers and
foresters had been deployed to trace and kill the elephant.

“The teams were finding it difficult to locate the elephant as visibility
was negligible in the forest due to thick vegetation and the hilly terrain
was not easily negotiable by vehicles. So, chances of capturing it was very
meagre in such a situation,” Singh said.

DS Srivastava, a state wildlife board member, raised objection to the
killing of the elephant. “Tuskers are protected under schedule-1 of
wildlife protection Act. It is irony that an elephant was killed in a state
where it is declared as state animal,” he said.

“The elephant was on the rampage for the last four months. But, state
forest department could not chalk out any concrete plan to control it. The
elephant could be protected by driving it to a small forest area and
digging trenches around it,” said Srivastava, a former steering committee
member of Project Elephant.

PCCF (wildlife), however, rejected Srivastava’s proposal. “Digging trenches
was not possible in hilly and rocky area. Also, it was a time-taking
process. Trenching could have been thought of if the elephant didn’t change
its location frequently,” Singh said.
