Ailing elephant loses battle for life (Narasinghpur Tehsil of Cuttack District, India) Orissa Post July 30, 2017 See link <https://www.orissapost.com/ailing-elephant-loses-battle-for-life/> for photo. Athamallik: A female elephant that was found lying at a farmland at Odasinga near Deulajhari tourist centre under Athamallik forest range after being afflicted with an ailment died while undergoing treatment Sunday. Forest officials buried the carcass after post-mortem in the presence of block veterinary officer Kailash Samant, veterinary surgeon Deepak Sadangi, assistant conservator of forest Rajendra Gochayat and forest ranger Prasanna Kumar Sahu. Earlier, locals had noticed the ailing pachyderm lying on the water-filled farmland and informed forest officials Saturday. A preliminary check-up indicated the 20-year-old jumbo was suffering from fever for a long time. It was assumed that the animal might have got separated from its herd due to its illness. Forest officials with the help of villagers first tried to drag the pachyderm to a dry place for its treatment, but in vain. Later, an earthmover was pressed into service to lift the pachyderm to a dry place. Then, veterinarians began its treatment but there was no improvement in the animal’s condition. Later, the pachyderm breathed its last Sunday morning, officials said. Jumbo calf found dead Bhanjanagar: Forest officials Sunday recovered the carcass of an elephant calf from a forest near Bardanda under Tarsingh range in Ghumusar forest division. The matter came to fore after some passersby complained of foul smell emanating from the forest. Later, they spotted the decomposed carcass and alerted forest officials. Divisional forest officer (DFO) Ramsami P and ranger Narayan Pradhan along with other officials reached the spot and recovered the carcass. The post-mortem will be conducted Monday, officials said. The reason behind the animal’s death was not ascertained yet, even as locals assumed it might have died due to starvation or after being electrocuted. An elephant and its calf were trapped inside an isolated well while they had strayed into a village in search of water May 25. Similarly, two more pachyderms were trapped in another well the same day. Forest officials rescued the mother elephant first while the calf was rescued later. This distracted the path of the pachyderms as the mother elephant strayed into the forest leaving behind its calf. Later, the calf was found wandering alone. Locals assumed that it might be the same calf. The DFO said the reason of the death will be ascertained after post-mortem. 