10 elephants electrocuted in 3 months in state (State of Karnataka, India)
New Indian Express
September 6, 2017

See link
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/karnataka/2017/sep/06/10-elephants-electrocted-in-3-months-in-state-1653061.html>
for photo & chart.

BENGALURU: A young tusker was electrocuted on the fringes of Tanigebailu
Wildlife Range in Chikkamagaluru district on Monday, taking the number of
jumbo deaths by electrocution in Karnataka to 10 in the last three months.

During monsoons, sagging power cables, snapped power lines and illegal
electric fencing have been killing the gentle giants almost every month in
the last decade.

At least 100 pachyderms have died this way. On Monday, illegal electric
fencing became the cause of death of a 25-30-year-old tusker. The animal
was electrocuted near a farm at Nandibattlu Tandya village.

Siddanayak, a farmer, had electrified the fencing around his farm to
protect potato crops from elephants. The area falls under Tarikere local
range of Bhadravathi territorial division and is adjacent to Tanigebailu
wildlife range of Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary. The young male elephant
suffered serious injuries in its trunk, sustaining a severe shock.

The farmer is absconding and a case has been registered by Lingadhalli
Police and Tarikere Range officials. According to G Veeresh, wildlife
activist, it was a single tusk elephant. He said, “This is the fourth such
incident in this region as elephants are electrocuted frequently. More than
three leopards were also snared in this area. Even people have died by
electrocution.”

Karnataka Chief Wildlife Warden C Jayaram told Express that seven deaths
which occurred in Kodagu district were because of snapped cables. “The
deaths occurred in coffee estates during heavy rains when visibility was
low.

These were accidental deaths caused by electrocution. After this incident,
we held discussions with ESCOMS so that all the sagging and snapped cables
are repaired. Now there is regular monitoring and inspection by both forest
and power officials,” he said.

In cases of deaths due to electric fencing, cases have been booked against
offenders, Jayaram added. “Compared to sagging power cables, deaths due to
illegal electric fencing have come down and they are rare now,” he
said.However, conservationists disagree and add that the forest department,
police and power companies should take strict action against offenders.
