Carcass of wild elephant recovered at Tamulpur (State of Assam, India)
The Sentinel
August 30, 2018

See link
<https://www.sentinelassam.com/news/carcass-of-wild-elephant-recovered-at-tamulpur/>
for photo.

TAMULPUR: The carcass of a wild elephant was recovered on Tuesday morning
at No 2 Kalipur village along the Indo-Bhutan border under Tamulpur
subdivision in the district of Baksa.

A large herd of wild elephants has been moving from village to village
along the Indo-Bhutan border in search of food since last 15-16 years.

According to the report, on Monday night a herd of wild elephant entered No
2 Kalipur village in search of food. On Tuesday morning, local people found
a female wild elephant lying dead near a paddy field along the River
Matanga of village No 2 Kalipur.

When the news spread in the village, a large number of people gathered at
the spot where the wild elephant was found dead. Getting the information,
forest officials also arrived and recovered the carcass of the wild
elephant.

Till the filing of this report, the actual cause of death of the wild
elephant had not been ascertained.

But forest officials told media persons that some villagers hang electric
wires connected with inverter around their paddy fields to protect their
crops and it is suspected that due to electric shock the wild elephant
might have died.

After post-mortem, the wild elephant was buried with the help of local
people.

The menace of wild elephants is a burning problem in Tamulpur subdivision
as well as in Baksa district.

More than 80 people have been killed by wild elephants and nine wild
elephants died due to human-wild elephant conflict in Tamulpur subdivision
in the last 15 years. Local people have been demanding scientific measures
to control the wild elephants and to protect the lives and properties of
local people as well as to protect the wild elephants also.

https://www.sentinelassam.com/news/carcass-of-wild-elephant-recovered-at-tamulpur/