Elephant, calf electrocuted in Ganjam (India)
The Pioneer
08 October 2012

Two elephants were electrocuted at the Kankhai jungle under the Khallikote forest range, situated 55 km away from Brahmapur, on Sunday.

It was the second such incident in the district in two days following the electrocution of two elephants and a wild boar in the Karadabani jungle in Gallery range of Bhanjanagar area on Saturday. A total of four elephants have been electrocuted in two days and at a time when the Government and social organisations are observing the Wildlife Week across the State.

According to sources, some persons of Kankhai and nearby villages under Rambha police station were trying to bury the electrocuted bodies of the elephants - one 20-year-old mother with her 3-year-old calf, early morning on Sunday. On a tip-off, the forest officials of Khallikote range reached the spot and recovered the bodies of the two elephants but failed to arrest the culprits. The poachers had buried the body of the mother elephant by digging a patch of land in the jungle while the body of the calf was thrown near a dense bush, only 100 metres away from the mother elephant, forest officials said.

Brahmapur DFO SS Mishra, Khallikote ranger Bijay Kumar Hota and other officials of the division who rushed to the spot started inquiry into the tragic incident. The two were trapped in live electric wire spread in the jungle to hunt wild animals, Ranger Hota said.

“We have to use modern technology like circuit breaker to check the problem. We request the people to refrain from these activities. The people who will give information about the poachers will be suitably rewarded,” said PCCF (Wildlife) JD Sharma.

In recent times seven elephants, including these two, have died in the Khallikote forest range, while four elephants have died in the Ghumusar forest division almost in similar circumstances and only seven elephants are left, sources said. A few days back, the poachers took away the teeth of an elephant after killing the animal in the Buguda forest range in the district. At the State-level, 58 elephants were electrocuted out of 282 elephants that died between 2008 and 2012.
Article at the following link:
http://dailypioneer.com/nation/100120-elephant-calf-electrocuted-in-ganjam.html