Tusker Deega Danthu-I shot by trap gun; Wildlife (Sri Lanka)
Chaturanga Samarawickrama, The Daily Mirror
June 13, 2018

See link
<http://www.dailymirror.lk/article/Tusker-Deega-Danthu-I-shot-by-trap-gun-Wildlife-151249.html>
for photos.

Deega Danthu I, one of the elephants with the longest tusks roaming the
Kala Wewa National Park, was found with gunshot injuries on Monday,
Galkiriyagama Wildlife Warden D. Ranasinghe said.

Speaking to the Daily Mirror, he said the Galkiriyagama Wildlife Department
had been informed by several fishermen in the Kala Wewa area about a
wounded tusker, which was limping.

Deega Danthu was one of the 18 tuskers living in the Kala Wewa National
Park.

“As soon as we got the message, a team led by Galkiriyagama Wildlife
officers, Civil Defence Force officers and veterinary officers of
Pandulagama were sent to the location along with several villagers,” Mr
Ranasinghe said.

“At the time we reached the location, the elephant was found in a critical
condition due to the injuries sustained on its front left leg,” he said.

The medical team had treated the tusker on Tuesday (12) morning.

“The elephant is now recovering well following the treatment. There are
many licensed guns among the people living near the Kala Wewa National
Park. This injury cannot be from a licensed gun, but from a trap gun used
to kill wild animals illegally,” he said.

Following the investigation conducted by the Wildlife officers, they found
the elephant had been injured by a trap gun in the Kahagalle forest area in
the Kala Wewa National Park.

It was reported that the tusker used to enter villages searching for food
and it had no fear of the methods adopted by the villagers to chase him
away.

Mr Ranasinghe said there was no use of creating electric fences for tuskers
because tuskers use their tusks to trample the electrified fence.

“Tusks do not pass electric shocks. Therefore, they remove electric fences
using their tusks and enter villages to in search of food,” he said.

http://www.dailymirror.lk/article/Tusker-Deega-Danthu-I-shot-by-trap-gun-Wildlife-151249.html