Six attacks in 11 days: Forest dept terms elephant ‘killer’, orders
‘extermination’ (Bankura, India)
Aniruddha Ghosal, The Indian Express
February 7, 2016

An elephant who knocked down six villagers, killing two of them, in Bankura
district in the past two weeks has been dubbed “killer” by the state forest
department which has assigned a team of two hunters to “exterminate” the
animal. Somnath Mukherjee, deputy conservator of forests, confirmed that
“the order to exterminate the rogue animal has been issued.”

A migrating herd of 72 wild elephants from the Dalma have entered the
Bankura forests in the past few months and split into two groups, officials
informed. The resulting conflict isn’t limited to just human casualties
with five elephants dying from electrocution in January. Most recently, an
adult tusker was electrocuted in Lalbazar under Barjora forest range on
January 30 when it’s trunk touched a high-tension electric wire.

On February 3, the “killer” elephant had attacked Gopal Lohar (72) at
Ramharipur jungle while Ashish Mondal (26) died after being attacked by the
elephant in Kukrajhar village, officials said, and added that Mondal’s
friend Hanuman also suffered injuries and is battling for life at the
Bankura Sammiloni Medical College and Hospital.

In a separate incident in February, which the forest department believes is
also linked to the same elephant, the dead body of Ashish Mondal (27) was
found near a pond at Kanchanpur beat. An elephant had been spotted at the
scene of crime.

Pinaki Mitra, DFO, Bankura (North) said the hunt for the rogue elephant
began soon after the order was given on Wednesday by chief conservator of
forests, Pradip Shukhla. Two hunters – Ritesh Chakraborty and Rajkumar
Mukherjee – have been hired by the department for this purpose.

At the heart of this conflict lies the Dalpani Kankrajhor elephant
corridor, documented after a four-year-long survey, ‘Right of Passage’
published by the Wildlife Trust of India in association with the Union
government’s National Elephant Corridor Project documented elephant
corridors in the country. The survey found that Bengal has the maximum
human population along with the highest degradation and fragmentation of
forest, leading inevitably to extremely high numbers of man-elephant
conflict. The survey said the corridor that elephants use to enter Bankura
from Dalma is “threatened by expansion of agricultural land near Amlasol
and nearby villages”.

The survey noted: “This is the most frequently used elephant route. Every
year elephants from Dalma pass through various degraded forest patches and
enter the Kankrajhor Reserve Forest from where they move to Bankura and
Purulia. They enter Kankrajhor near Amlasol village.”

Forest department officers said in the past 11 days alone, the rogue tusker
attacked six villagers. “Prima facie it appears to be a young bull who
recently entered adulthood. His tusks are smaller than others. It has an
injury to his ear which causes him excruciating pain and is the reason for
the unusually high level of aggression,” an official informed.

“After an unsuccessful first day, the two hunters set out looking for the
rogue animal in Gangajalghanti and it’s adjoining Barjora Forest areas
early Saturday morning. But they’re yet to find the animal,” said another
official Saturday evening.

Officials admitted that the unusually prompt decision to dub the animal as
“killer” and the order for his death was linked to a similar case in
November 2015, when another elephant had killed four people in Bishnupur,
Bankadaha and Sonamukhi range in Bankura. “The animal was unsuccessfully
tracked for four days and the killing stopped only after the herd was
pushed away by another herd from Dalma ranges in Jharkhand,” an official
said.

But in spite of the rapidly escalating man-elephant conflict in Bankura,
the threats documented by the survey in 2004 continue to worsen and forest
department officials said little work had been done to relocate villages in
the area, as had been suggested by the 2004 study.

“The survey had suggested the declaration and legal protection of the
corridor while seeking alternatives for Amlasol and Makali villages. But
with rise in population, most of the land in what were once forests have
been converted into fields as a result of which the deaths – of both human
and animal – have also increased,” admitted an official.