Jumbo's head chopped off for tusks in north Bengal (India)

Pinak Priya Bhattacharya, Times of India

Oct 11, 2013



JALPAIGURI: In yet another elephant poaching case in north Bengal this year, carcass of a full-grown jumbo, with its head missing, was found on the outskirts of Neora Valley National Park in the Kalimpong subdivision on Thursday.



The trunk of the elephant was also chopped off and it was found lying close to the body. Foresters patrolling the Sakham area in the Kalimpong subdivision spotted the carcass. This is the third jumbo poaching case in north Bengal this year. Earlier in February, a pachyderm was poached at the Panibari range in Buxa Tiger Reserve and in April, the carcass of a full-grown jumbo was found at the south Raidak range in Buxa with a poison pellet piercing through its body.



The autopsy report revealed that it was a full-grown tusker, which died after sustaining bullet injuries. and the missing of the head clearly indicates that it was taken off to collect the tusks, which fetch hefty amount in international market. The post mortem also revealed that the elephant was shot at which is the reason of its death.



"The elephant might have got trapped in a crossfire on the Assam border where there is a tension over the Bodoland. We suspect that the poachers tracked it at Sakham and chopped off its head for the tusks," said chief wildlife warden NC Bahuguna, adding that chances of the elephant being shot at Nepal can't be ruled out too.



Conservationists blamed the department's staff shortage for the incident. In Bengal, the number of sanctioned post for forest guards is 2444, whereas its present strength is only 1573, which implies that the department has a strength shortage by 36%



. Sources said another reason may be the fact that several foresters are now on leave to enjoy the festive season. The poachers, aware of this, are believed to have taken the full opportunity of the situation



"We believe that a large team of poachers is active in north Bengal and is assisted by the outsiders. There have been cases of poaching in Buxa in the recent past. But due to staff shortage, the department has not been able to beef up the vigil," said Animesh Basu, coordinator of Himalayan Nature and Adventure Foundation and a member of the state wildlife advisory board.



Earlier, the forest department officials had said that rhino poachers from Assam, who managed to sneak into Bengal, were targeting the elephants here. It is believed that the poachers from north east crossed over to Bengal after the Assam government took up the rhino poaching issue seriously and beefed up the vigil there.



"We have started a probe and are hopeful of nabbing the miscreants soon," Bahuguna said.



In what could be a clear case of poaching, foresters on Thursday found a semi-decomposed body of an adult pachyderm at Sakham, on the outskirts of Neora Valley National Park in Kalimpong subdivision. The body had its head chopped off from its body. The trunk of the elephant was also chopped off and it lay by the side of the body.



We are not sure whether the elephant was shot on the Assam where the Bodos are reportedly targeting elephants or in Nepal where elephants are often targeted whenever it depredates into the country. It can be such that the tusker was shot at in Assam or Nepal and poachers tracked the animal at Sakham and chopped off its head for the tusks," said NC Bahuguna, principal chief conservator of forests, wild life.
