Hounded, hurt tusker remains elusive (Bhubaneswar, India)
New Indian Express
January 29, 2017

See link
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/odisha/2017/jan/29/hounded-hurt-tusker-remains-elusive-1564663.html>for
photo.

A lone tusker which has been roaming the forests of Athagarh with an
injured leg has managed to keep Forest sleuths at bay for the last five
days. Attempts to track the jumbo for tranquillisation has failed too.

But what is a matter of concern is that a front leg of the elephant has
been trapped in a tyre. Unable to free itself, the jumbo has been moving
around the forests with the tyre which has started to injure its leg.

Athagarh Forest Division which had sought assistance of experts from OUAT
and logistics support from Nandankanan Zoo had located the elephant on
Tuesday and Wednesday but could not tranquillise it. On Friday, the jumbo
could not be traced while today, it was located only during the evening due
to which tranquillisation was ruled out. The forest officials are likely to
resume the operation on Sunday.

Since the left leg has been trapped in the tyre for about a week, sources
said, the elephant has been hurt. Any delay in tranquillising the elephant
may prove risky for the jumbo. In the wild, elephants find support from the
herd but this being a loner, the animal has struggled.

What has not helped the matters is the manner in which the Forest
Department has approached the whole exercise. Instead of trying to locate
the jumbo quietly, the forest staff have made matters worse by allowing
locals who have been trailing them. Sources said the team has even been
accompanied by media persons.

"The whole exercise should be carried out in a discreet manner without
raising any attention because that disturbs the animal. An enraged elephant
is most likely to vanish from the location," said a forest official.
Interestingly, on Tuesday, the local forest staff had been charged by the
jumbo and some of them sustained injuries too. Wildlife experts say
elephants give mock charge when they find too many people following them
and that should have been avoided in the first place.

"The forest staff must follow the standard operating procedure which the
Ministry of Environment and Forest and Climate Change had issued for such
scenario.

The first measure should be to cordon off the area with help of police and
if necessary, clamp prohibitory orders. It is hardly followed," said an
expert.

However, Athagarh being a political sensitive place neither police nor
forest officials are willing to take on the locals. With panchayat polls
drawing close, none is willing to take any risk.