Forest officials on toes as jumbo poaching resurfaces (Sundargarh District,
India)
The New Indian Express
September 20, 2017

See link
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/odisha/2017/sep/20/forest-officials-on-toes-as-jumbo-poaching-resurfaces-1659851.html>
for photo.

ROURKELA: Elephant poaching appears to have resurfaced with recovery of the
carcass of a sub-adult tusker sans its trunk and tusks from the remote Sol
forest range of Bonai Forest Division (BFD) in Sundargarh district. The
Forest authorities, on the other hand, are not sure if any organised racket
is involved in the crime.

As per reports, the carcass of the tusker, aged about 20 years, was spotted
lying in Kunjar Reserve Forest (RF) of Sol range with its trunk chopped off
with an axe-like weapon a couple of days back. After autopsy, the
decomposed body was buried at the spot on Saturday evening in presence of
Rourkela-based Regional Conservator of Forest (RCCF) Lingaraj Otta.

The RCCF said it is baffling that the relatively young elephant was killed
for its tusks, which may not have been longer than only 8-9 inches. He also
said the trunk was hacked off and involvement of local villagers could not
be ruled out.

“There are two possibilities. Either the elephant was killed by poachers or
it might have died due to other reasons including lightning and greedy
villagers removed the tusks from the carcass,” Otta said and added that the
autopsy report is awaited to ascertain the exact reason of death.

Though metal detector was used, no objects such as bullet or arrow were
found, he said. The RCCF further said the Forest officials are collecting
confidential reports from villagers about suspicious movement of outsiders
while some persons were also being questioned.

Cases of poaching incidents from Gurundia block of BFD surface at regular
intervals. In July 2015, a sub-adult tusker, aged 25-30 years, was killed
with a poison-laced arrow at Dalai RF of Sol range. But poachers were not
able to remove the tusks due to timely intervention of Forest officials.

In February 2013, suspected poachers of North-East region shot dead an
adult elephant and sawed off its trunk for the tusks in Jharkhand, just a
few metres from Bisra range of Rourkela Forest Division. In January 2011, a
sub-adult elephant was found dead with its tusks missing in Sol range of
BFD and another tusker was killed by suspected poachers in 2010.During
2008, at least two matured tuskers were killed by poachers in Tamra range
of Gurundia block in BFD and subsequently, 18 locals were jailed for
several months after recovery of ivories from them.

