3-MEMBER TEAM TO PROBE TUSKER DEATH
The Statesman
FEbruary 15, 2005

Statesman News Service COOCH BEHAR, Feb. 14. - A three-member commission is 
probing into the killing of an elephant, whose body was recently found in 
the Chilapata forest in the Cooch Behar forest division area. The body of a 
full-grown tusker was recovered from the CC Line area of Chilapata Forest 
Range near the Jaldapara forest on 4 February. It was probably killed on 2 
February. The poachers went underground after chopping off its trunk and two 
tusks. The length of each of the tusks is about five feet.

The commission was constituted following an instruction from state forest 
minister Mr Jogesh Chandra Barman. Chief conservator of forests (wildlife) 
Mr Ujjwal Bhattacharya, conservator of forests (wildlife-North) Mr PT Bhutia 
and conservator of forests (Northern circle) Mr LG Lepcha are the members of 
the panel. Chief minister Mr Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee had expressed his 
displeasure over the poaching incident. Following the incident, Mr Jogesh 
Chandra Barman ordered an inquiry and half-a-dozen members of the gang have 
been arrested. The severed tusks have also been recovered from a place at 
Sachin basti of Uttar Mendabari.

Interrogating the arrested, the forest officials learnt that the elephant 
was killed by two hired shooters, who were probably hired from outside the 
state. They came from a North-east state, forest officials suspect. The 
entire gang of the poachers has been identified.

Mr Jogesh Chandra Barman ordered to arrest the poachers and recover the 
tusks. He also said that probable involvement of any forest personnel would 
also be enquired. Following the minister's instruction a massive raid 
started in the Dooars area in North Bengal. Two inter-state smugglers of 
wildlife trophies have been arrested from Jaigaon area. The local people of 
Mendabari and Satali helped the forest personnel and police to arrest 
another one. A few others were also arrested later, during raids. During the 
interrogation, the arrested revealed that there were six in the gang, who 
were directly involved in the poaching. They confessed that they used 
poison-coated iron sticks to kill the tusker. It was suspected that the same 
gang has been involved in poaching elephants in the last few years in the 
region.

