Elephant’s Death: Forest Trackers to Face Music (India)
Daily Pioneer
August 8, 2017

Tiger reserve officials here are flabbergasted over the discovery of a
highly decomposed body of an elephant at Goindee protected forest in Garu
East of South Division of the PTR. The decomposed body of the elephant was
first discovered on Sunday.

Deputy director south division PTR Mahalinga said, “It is most shocking as
to how this elephant remained dead, decomposing but none of our forest
trackers could smell the odour of the decomposing elephant for nearly six
or seven days.” Thousands of maggots have invaded the eye sockets, ears,
mouth’s aperture, rectum and other parts of the body of this decomposed
elephant, he added.

Chief conservator of forest cum field director PTR M P Singh said such
negligent officials whosoever they may be will have to face music.

He said, “I have given enough hands in every range and it is the prime duty
of a ranger to deploy the work force. Here in this case it does not appear
anyone has done his job any at all.” Singh reiterated there will be heads
rolling down in this case.

Mahaling further said there is a forest camp barely two kilometers away
from the site where this decomposed elephant was found but strange enough
none of the trackers patrolling the forest area of Goindee which is a
protected forest could smell anything.

He said the forest trackers will have to explain this as it is nothing but
a sheer negligence of duty.

Further the elephant has so badly decomposed that it is difficult to find
out if the dead one is a male one or a female one.

A team of two vet surgeons conducted the autopsy of this dead one but
sources said this is not going to help in ascertaining the real cause of
death of this elephant.

Sources said just four weeks ago a one and a half month old elephant was
found dead in the north division. This elephant was found dead in a sitting
posture. This year alone the number of deaths of elephants is around six.
There was no word of any lone elephant limping or down with any wound on
its body here and this death has robbed the PTR officials of their sleep.

Sources said there is a water nullah at Hakatoowa where comes a couple of
elephants and forest trackers could have noticed there too if any elephant
was there looking ailing or wounded at all.

Mahaling said he got used the metal detector and there was no beeping sound
to suggest any metal inside the body thus he ruled out any shooting down of
this elephant by any size pr bore bullet or cartridge.
