Tame Sumatran elephant, Yongki, slaughtered by ivory hunters
Agence France Presse
SEPTEMBER 22, 2015

A CRITICALLY endangered Sumatran elephant who had patrolled Indonesia’s
jungles to help protect threatened habitats has been killed for his tusks,
an official said on Monday, sparking a surge of anger online.

Yongki, a tame creature who worked with teams of elephant keepers, was
found dead close to the camp where he lived in a national park on the
western island of Sumatra, said park official Timbul Batubara.

His one-metre tusks had been hacked off, leaving just bloody stumps, and
his legs still bore the chains put on him by his keepers to ensure he
stayed in the camp.

There are estimated to be less than 3,000 Sumatran elephants remaining in
the wild. They are frequently targeted by poachers for their tusks, which
fetch a high price for use in Chinese traditional medicine.

Batubara, from the Bukit Barisan Selatan national park, said it was not yet
known how Yongki was killed.

His body, which was found Friday, bore no bullet wounds but he had a blue
tongue. Elephants have in the past been poisoned.

Yongki, aged about 35, was well-known among the local “mahouts” or elephant
keepers. Nazaruddin, the head of the Indonesian Mahout Forum, said keepers
in the area were “very shaken”.

“We are mourning the lost of an elephant who has been helping us in
handling conflicts and helping forest rangers patrol the forest, and he was
a good elephant,” Nazaruddin, who goes by one name, told AFP.

The elephant was involved in patrols aimed at reducing tensions, with the
tame elephants stopping wild elephants from rampaging through villages. The
patrols also help rangers keep a lookout for illegal logging and poaching
that threaten Indonesia’s vast rainforests.

There was anger on social media after pictures of the elephant’s body
circulated, with users posting comments on Twitter next to the hashtag
#RIPYongki.

The backlash mirrored the anger that greeted the killing of a protected
lion in Zimbabwe by an American dentist. In July, Walter Palmer provoked
outrage after shooting and beheading Cecil the Lion after luring him
outside of his boundaries.

“It is time we enforce life sentences for hunters of legally protected
animals,” said Facebook user Aprilia Putri.

Protection group the International Union for Conservation of Nature
classifies the Sumatran elephant as critically endangered. It is one of
many species that are under threat in Indonesia.