Wild jumbo dies of electrocution in Nagaon (India)
The Sentinel
December 24, 2016

NAGAON (HAIBORGAON), Dec 24: Another wild jumbo on Friday midnight died of
electrocution in the paddy field of Nagaon Narttamgaon village near
Puranigudam in Nagaon district due to alleged extreme negligence of the
Nagaon Divisional Forest Official and APDCL workers, which has drawn
reaction from all sections of the society.

Interestingly, a large herd of wild jumbos entered areas like Barhampur,
Narttamgaon, Bherbheri, Putani Bhutaigaon, Gumuthagaon, Bakultal and
Pathari and had demolished various houses and also destroyed hundreds of
bighas of paddy over the past 20 days. But the forest officials allegedly
failed to send back the herd to the jungle due to alleged extreme
negligence of the Divisional Forest Officer. As a consequence, soon after
the electrocution of the jumbo on Friday midnight, an irate local mob on
Saturday morning thronged the spot and went on a rampage and in presence of
DFO Dipika Chuodhury.

The mob alleged that the incident took place because of her indifference
and negligence. The mob even staged protest against the indifference and
negligence of DFO Choudhury and other forest officials. Subsequently, the
mob also slammed the power department and alleged that wires of the old
power line were hanging loose and all these years no steps had been taken
to repair these old power line.

Later, higher officials of the district police administration and district
administration rushed to the spot and managed to bring the situation under
control and also managed to protect DFO Choudhury from the irate mob. The
mob even opposed the burial of the jumbo till the officials of APDCL
promised to repair the old power line within a stipulated time. Meanwhile,
the local MLA and former Chief Minister P K Mahanta also rushed to the spot
and took the feedback of the whole incident and urged the district forest
officials as well as the APDCL to take immediate measures against free
movement of wild jumbos in the areas and appealed to them to provide proper
protection of the jumbos as well as the inhabitants of the greater area of
Barhampur.