Female Elephant and Foetus Electrocuted in Assam, Forest Department Lodges
Complaint (India)
Karishma Hasnat, News 18
September 5, 2018

See link
<https://www.news18.com/news/india/female-elephant-and-foetus-electrocuted-in-assam-one-arrested-1869093.html>
for photo.

A female elephant was electrocuted after coming in contact with livewires
set up at a riverine island near Borgang river of Assam’s Biswanath
district, around 1 km from the sixth addition of Kaziranga National Park.

According to forest officials, the ‘deliberate’ case of electrocution also
led to the death of a mature foetus the young female was carrying.

“It’s a deliberate case of electrocution where the solar fence was powered
from the AC main line instead of going through a battery powered
energizer,” said P Sivakumar, conservator of forests, northern Assam
circle, Tezpur.

Wildlife conservationist Kaushik Barua said, “It seems from the last few
incidents that a large number of young adult elephants are being killed.
These were elephants which would have bred – an entire generation of
elephants are being lost due to such ghastly acts by humans.”

Meanwhile, the forest department has lodged a complaint against the
villager of Kathonibari area who allegedly laid the 220-Volt livewires
leading to the death of the pregnant elephant.

A post mortem report is awaited.

Locals said that a herd of 50-60 elephants have wandered into the area in
search of food. The forest department had already taken measures to secure
crop fields from marauding elephants.

Electrocution deaths can be both accidental and deliberate.

Wildlife conservationist Kaushik Barua believes that rather than
restricting the installation and use of power fences, a mechanism should be
in place that doesn’t pose a threat to elephants.

“Proper equipment and permissible source of power needs to be ensured,”
said Barua.

In another incident last week, an abandoned elephant calf was rescued by
forest officials in the same area.

https://www.news18.com/news/india/female-elephant-and-foetus-electrocuted-in-assam-one-arrested-1869093.html