Four elephants dead in Coimbatore within 24 hours (India)
New Indian Express
January 18, 2017

See link
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/tamil-nadu/2017/jan/18/four-elephants-dead-in-coimbatore-within-24-hours-1560924.html>
for photo

Two elephants including a calf captured by the forest department, died due
to different reason here on Wednesday. It may be noted that two elephants
were electrocuted on Tuesday after coming in contact with live electric
cable at a farm land near Mettupalayam.

In the first incident, a seven-year-old female elephant, which was getting
treatment at Seeliyur in Periyanacikenpalayam forest range, died around 3
am on Wednesday.  According to sources, the animal’s tongue was cut and
right leg was fractured after biting an ovuttukai (country-made bomb) kept
by farmers to protect crops from wild boar. “Though we administered more
than 45 bottles of IV (glucose) to improve its health the animal died
around 3 am on Wednesday,” said S Palaniraja, forest range officer of
Periyanaickenpalayam range.

NS Manokaran, forest veterinarian, who performed the postmortem on the
elephant said that the animal was severely injured and had infection on its
mouth and right leg.  “We have drained litres of puss from the animal’s
leg, stomach and mouth. It’s stomach was empty. The animal was suffering
from the injury in the last two weeks.”

In another incident, a two-year-old elephant calf that was injured on
Tuesday after coming in contact with a live electric cable near
Dasampalayam village near Mettupalayam, died within an hour after
veterinarians carried out surgery to the calf.

Two veterinarians, Asokan of Sathyanangalam Tiger Reserve and Prayag of
Karnataka, were providing treatment to the calf elephant inside the forest
depot on Kotagiri road near Mettupalayam. According to forest sources, the
animal had a deep injury on its trunk and was unable to consume water on
its own.

“The forest department should not have captured the calf even though it was
injured badly. Also, the department delayed the treatment. They should
discuss with the NGOs working in the field,” said N Sadiq Ali, founder of
Nature Conservation Trust.

The calf elephant along with its mother and another calf entered a farm
land, owned by Palanissmy at Dasampalayam near Mettupalayam on Tuesday
early morning, where they came in contact with the live electric cable.

With this, four elephants have died in a 10 km radius at Mettupalayam in
less than 24 hours.