Rail track fence claims life of elephant (State of Karnataka, India)
T R Sathish Kumar, The Deccan Herald
December 15, 2018

See link
<https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ambitious-rail-track-fence-708331.html>
for photos.

MYSURU: A Forest Department railway track fence, which was built to prevent
man-animal conflict in villages near forests, has claimed the life of an
elephant.

This happened in Veeranahosahalli forest, under Nagarahole National Park
limits, in Hunsur Taluk on Saturday morning.

“Three elephants had strayed into villages on the fringes of
Veeranahosahalli on Friday night. Forest department personnel had driven
them back into the forests. However, one of them, a tusker, aged 42 years,
had not returned.

It was returning to the forest on Saturday, during the wee hours, from
Veeranahosahalli village, when it tried to cross over the railway track
fence. In its efforts, it got stuck in the middle,” said ACF S R Prasanna
Kumar.

Forest department officials said, it was an identified rogue elephant and
it would often raid human habitats. It has tried to cross over the fence
near the official quarters of the RFO in the forest. It has taken the fence
route, even though the gates, leading to the forest, had been kept open,
they said.

It has to be recalled that only a couple of weeks ago, on December 4, Chief
Minister H D Kumaraswamy had announced construction of a 500-km-long
railway track fence at Alur and surrounding villages in Hassan district. He
had given his assurance to the people of Balupet and surrounding villages
after they held a weeklong protest calling for a permanent solution to the
jumbo menace.

Earlier, on December 1, Chamarajanagar MP R Dhruvanarayan had directed the
Forest department officials to erect rail track fence to prevent elephants
from straying into human landscapes, during the District Development
Coordination and Monitoring Committee meeting in the city.

It has to be recalled that the railway track fence was introduced by the
Forest department a few years ago as a fool-proof solution to the straying
of elephants into human habitats. But, now, it has proved fatal to the
elephant, compelling the officials to rethink.

Recently, the Forest department had introduced concrete fence, especially
in forests under Bandipur National Park. They are erected at places where
elephant-proof trenches (EPTs) could not be dug, due to geographical and
geological reasons. Earlier, the concrete structures had nails.

They were removed, following a Supreme Court order, as there were
possibilities of the wild animals getting injured. The cement structure
cost around Rs 6,000 per metre.