Elephant in forest department's captivity killed for revenge in Madhya
Pradesh (India)
Rahul Noronha, India Today
September 24, 2018

See link
<https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/elephant-killed-madhya-pradesh-forest-captivity-villagers-1348010-2018-09-24>
for photo.

In what seems like a case of retribution, an elephant captured by the
forest department authorities from Sidhi district, Madhya Pradesh, was
killed by poisoning while in captivity on Sunday.

The case also exposes poor protection measures of the forest department
staff in the state.

A dead cow and a dead dog were also found in the vicinity.

Sources in the forest department said that five elephants that had entered
Madhya Pradesh from Chhattisgarh were captured between September 9 and 16.
The elephants had been raiding crops, destroying homes and had killed one
person after which they were captured.

After being captured in Sidhi district, the elephants were chained and kept
in a forest near Chapondi village.

It was decided that the elephants would be taken to Bandhavgarh National
Park where they would be trained and used for patrolling.

The authorities later began transporting elephants on truck one at a time.
On Saturday, the fourth elephant was taken to Bandhavgarh. However, when
the truck scheduled to take the fifth elephant arrived at the camp, the
Sidhi forest division found out that the elephant was dead.

The security of the elephants had been entrusted to forest department staff
that were to stay at the elephant camp to protect them. A post-mortem was
conducted on the dead elephant which confirmed death due to poisoning.

Sources in the forest department added that the villagers, who lost their
crops, could be responsible for all this.

A cow and a dog were also found dead at the spot, suggesting that they too
ate the poisoned food offered to the elephant.

The matter is being investigated and a case of poaching has been
registered.

https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/elephant-killed-madhya-pradesh-forest-captivity-villagers-1348010-2018-09-24
