Two tigers, elephant found dead in Bandipur reserve (State of Karnataka,
India)
The Hindu
January 26, 2018

Authorities Suspect Poisoning of Waterbody; Viscera Samples Sent for Tests
to Ascertain Cause of Death

Mystery shrouds the death of two tigers and an elephant whose carcasses
were found close to a waterbody in Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Thursday. The
deaths set alarm bells ringing among conservationists and the Forest
Department staff.

While the cause of death was yet to be confirmed, authorities have not
ruled out poisoning.

The carcasses were found close to the Hirekere waterbody in the Himmavad
Gopalswamy Betta range of the tiger reserve. The animals may have died a
week ago. The male tiger was around 3 years old, the female about 2 years,
and the elephant, a female, around 25 years old.

Conservator of Forests and Director of Bandipur Ambadi Madhav said
post-mortem was conducted and samples of the viscera will be sent to the
National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, and the Forensic
Science Laboratory at Madiwala, to ascertain cause of deaths.

A section of senior officials said the waterbody may have been poisoned,
but some activists said the amount of poison required to contaminate the
waterbody would be huge. Besides, other animals dependent on it should have
died too.

Linked to Cattle Deaths?

There have been past incidents of tigers being poisoned to avenge cattle
deaths, and the authorities are yet to ascertain if any village in the
vicinity had reported cattle deaths recently.

Veterinarian Nagaraj, who conducted post-mortem, said the carcasses were so
putrefied that ascertaining cause of death through post-mortem was
difficult. The viscera samples may throw light on the cause.

Bandipur is one of the best landscapes for tigers, and harbours nearly 110
to 130 tigers, besides a rich density of elephants. But the national park
is also surrounded by nearly 150 villages, and hence conflicts are high.

Last year, as many as four tiger deaths were reported from Bandipur and 11
died in the adjoining Nagarahole.

Expressing shock over the development, activists questioned why money
generated through tourism was not being channelised to address the woes of
the local community.

“Though Bandipur generates nearly ₹5 crore from tourism, and the funds are
to be channelised through the Bandipur Tiger Foundation for local community
development, nothing is done for their benefit,” said a conservationist on
condition of anonymity.

http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/two-tigers-elephant-found-dead-in-bandipur-reserve/article22525834.ece