Two elephants found dead in Sathyamangalam jungles (India)

Radha Venkatesan, Times of India

April 21, 2010



COIMBATORE: As summer scorches the forests in Tamil Nadu, two adult elephants have died of “exhaustion” in the last four days in the dry Sathyamangalam jungles, apparently due to water and food shortage.



A 35-year-old makhna — a bull elephant without a tusk — died in the elephant haven of Thengumarahada in Bhavanisagar forest range in Sathyamangalam division on Monday evening. The postmortem examination conducted by forest department veterinarian revealed that the elephant had died of “impaction,” a potential case of dehydration and colitis in the stomach.



On April 16, a 50-year-old female elephant was found dead at Kovilur forest area in T N Palayam. The elephant had lesions in liver and spleen, an indication that it had raided pesticide-laced food crops because of the fodder shortage in the jungles.



Elephants gulp at least 100 to 125 litres of water everyday. While healthy elephants can trudge long distances in search of water, “weak and sick” animals are unable to “perambulate” and succumb, says forest veterinarian Dr NS Manoharan. However, Sathyamangalam DFO, S Ramasubramaniam, insisted that there is no food or water scarcity in the forests. “We have provided adequate water troughs for the animals. And it is not abnormal for elephants to die at 35 years in wild conditions,” he said. 



With the onset of summer, forests in western Tamil Nadu have been reeling under severe drought conditions and a spate of fire as well.



With fodder and water holes drying up in the jungles, elephants are raiding the agricultural fields in hamlets located on the forest fringes.



Meanwhile, a 40-year-old makhna was killed by a tusker in Thalavady forests on April 18. In a turf fight, the makhna was gored to death by the tusker, according to a forest official.



Besides drought conditions, viral diseases are also taking a toll on elephants. Last Sunday, a baby elephant died at a water trough at the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology at Anaikatty in Coimbatore, due to “severe viral infection”.





Article at the following link:

http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/environment/flora-fauna/Two-elephants-found-dead-in-Sathyamangalam-jungles/articleshow/5838317.cms