Wild elephant found dead on paddy field in Dibrugarh village (State of
Assam, India)
Avik Chakraborty, Northeast News Now
December 4, 2018

See link
<https://nenow.in/north-east-news/assam/wild-elephant-found-dead-in-paddy-field-in-dibrugarh-village.html>
for photo.

A male wild elephant was suspected to be electrocuted at Majgaon village of
Kalakhowa area located around 24-km from Dibrugarh town on Tuesday morning.

A two-month baby elephant was rescued near the carcass of the elephant by
forest official and took it to Khowang range office.

“Villagers informed us about the incident. We rushed to the place and found
that a 12-year old male elephant lying dead on the paddy field. The
elephant may have died due to electrocution as farmers tend to put live
electric wires around their paddy fields to prevent the elephant herds from
destroying their crops. We are waiting for the autopsy report,” said Biraj
Barman, Ranger of Khowang forest range.

The elephant is said to be part of a herd that has ventured out from
Dehing-Medela reserve forest in search of food.

He said that they had rescued a two-month baby elephant from that place and
after giving some treatment brought it to Khowang forest range. “We have
sent the baby elephant to Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation Conservation
(CWRC) at Kaziranga for treatment. The baby elephant was suffering from
dehydration and too weak,” the Ranger informed.

“We are not ruling out death of the jumbo due to electrocution. We are
waiting for the autopsy report that is expected on Friday. We will decide
on our next course of action including lodging of FIR in the police station
on the basis of the autopsy report. Now we have the major task to dispose
of the carcass properly before it starts decomposing,” Barman said.

According to the locals, the elephant come out from the nearby forest in
the night in search of food and rampaged their crops. “During winter we
have sleepless nights because of possible raid by wild elephants in our
village. We have reported the matter to the forest department but they are
not taking the matter seriously,” alleged a villager.