No Anthrax bacteria in dead jumbo's blood, poisoning suspected (Chennai,
India)
P Oppili, Times of India
November 30, 2016

See link
<http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/no-anthrax-bacteria-in-dead-jumbos-blood-poisoning-suspected/articleshow/55697355.cms>
for photo.

Anthrax has been ruled out as the cause of death of the female elephant
whose carcass was found in Sirumugai Range in Coimbatore forest division on
Monday.

Animal husbandry department veterinarians in Chennai confirmed to TOI that
the blood samples taken from the dead elephant showed no strains of anthrax.

Wildlife veterinarian N S Manoharan, on deputation to the forest
department, had earlier informed the media that the animal died due to
anthrax. A senior veterinary officer conceded that the vet had jumped the
gun by issuing the statement before the blood test was carried out.

The same vet had failed to detect the pregnancy of a female elephant a
couple of months ago in the Coimbatore region and was giving treatment for
an ailment before it delivered a calf.

Wildlife activists believe the elephant was poisoned citing previous
instances. A large number of banana farms have appeared illegally in both
Sirumugai Range in Coimbatore and the adjoining Bhavani Sagar Range in the
Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve. The farmers target elephants that stray close
to their farms by lacing ba nanas and jackfruits with poison, they said.
The activists blamed forest officials for not taking action against the
encroachers despite being aware of the violations.

When contacted, chief wildlife warden V K Melkhani said following reports
of increased elephant deaths, he was inspecting Aanamalai Tiger Reserve in
Pollachi and other areas in the region. Asked specifically about the cause
of death of the elephant, Melkhani said he had not seen the report yet,
adding that elephants die due to drought conditions in many parts of the
state.

A high level committee from the Union Ministry should inspect the spot and
conduct a postmortem to bring out the truth behind the animal's death,
wildlife activists said.\