Elephant carcass found near Corbett, poaching ruled out (India)
Vineet Upadhyay, Times of India
April 16, 2017

NAINITAL: A day after a tigress was found dead in the Ramnagar forest
divisionnear Corbett National Park, the carcass of an elephant was found in
the Dhalua range of the same division on Saturday. On inspection, the
pachyderm's tusks were found to be intact, ruling out the possibility of
poachers being behind the death.

Neha Verma, divisional forest officer, Ramnagar, said, "It is not a
poaching incident. The elephant died due to electrocution when it came in
contact with an 11KV power line pole. Action has been initiated against
employees of the state power corporation under Wildlife Protection Act 1972
because it is a result of their negligence. Also 4.5 hectares of forest has
been engulfed in fire caused by the short circuit, for which also we are
planning action."

The carcass of the 10-year-old male elephant was found by a patrol in Daula
range of the forest division. The patrol immediately informed senior
officials who rushed to the spot. The decomposed carcass was sent for
post-mortem which was conducted on Sunday. Forest department officials told
TOI that the final report is yet to come but findings indicate signs of
electrocution.

Uttarakhand has recorded a 15% increase in the population of elephants. The
2015 census has put the population at 1,797 while according to the 2012
census the count was 1,559. The census of elephants is due in the hill
state late this year.

Corbett Tiger Reserve got nine elephants from Karnataka government for
patrolling and other activities within the park. Earlier, the national park
had 13 elephants for patrolling inaccessible areas but seven of them died,
following which it was decided to bring new pachyderms.

A half-decomposed body of an adult tigress was found in the Dachauri range
of Ramnagar forest division on Friday .The body was spotted by a patrolling
team of the forest department. This is the seventh death of a tiger in the
hill state this year.
