Elephant falls into well, rescued (India) 
Alok K N Mishra, Times of India 
January 18, 2013 
 RANCHI: An elephant which fell into a non-fenced well in the jungles on the border of Rahe and Sonahatu blocks on Wednesday was rescued by officials of the forest department on Thursday. The elephant, which fell into the well, was possibly the baby of one of the two female elephants who were electrocuted at the same place on Wednesday. The elephant was, however, been rescued after about 12 hours at around 2.30pm. The well is not more than 12 feet deep and was lying unused by the villagers. Huge bushes covered the well from all sides and the fact that it existed could not be made out from any side. "Lack of visibility might have led to the elephant's fall," said a forester. There are possibilities that it was searching for its mother. "The elephant may have come in search of its mother here and was roaming in the jungles when he fell inside the well," said Arjun Badaik, assistant conservator of forests Khunti division. The foresters brought an earthmoving machine and rescued it from the well. "A slope was dug into the well, which helped the elephant come out," said Badaik. The  elephant was safe and has returned to the jungles, the forester added. 
A group of 25 elephants, who have deviated from their natural trail, have entered the village and are living in the jungles bordering Kapidih village. "The foresters came hours after they were informed. The elephants are living in the nearby forests and we are afraid they may come anytime to rescue the baby elephants," said Niranjan Mahto, a villager. The villagers have claimed that the elephants, electrocuted on Wednesday, had damaged around 35 acres of potato crops and paddy yield. They had entered the nearby fields and damaged around 25 acres of land on Wednesday after which one fell into the well. Umesh Prasad, deputy mukhiya of Kapidih village said, "No less than 50 acres of crops have been damaged in the two-day incident." The elephants are likely to wreak more havoc in the villages because the forest department is not finding trained tribals who can chase the elephants out. "Owing to Tusu festivals, (the festival is yet to conclude in some parts of Jharkhand and West Bengal) we are not able to find people who can chase away the elephants," said A K Mukherjee, ranger of forests Bundu (range). 
