Elephant electrocuted by illegal electric fence (Vellore District, India)
The Times of India
August 20, 2017

VELLORE: An adult male elephant was electrocuted when it came in contact
with an illegal electric fencing erected around a farmland in Erathangal
village on the periphery of Naickaneri reserve forest (RF) in on Saturday
morning.

The incident came to light when the villagers of Erathangal spotted the
lifeless body of the elephant. Damodaran, a villager, had taken the piece
of land on lease and erected electric fencing to protect the crops from
damage by animals such as wild boars. The connection to electrify the
fencing was drawn from the supply for the motor pump.

The elephant, aged seven to eight years, had moved to Pernambut range from
the Koundenya Wildlife Sanctuary in Andhra Pradesh. It was electrocuted
when it came in contact with the electric fencing around the field.

Following this, Dinkar Kumar, conservator of forests, vellore circle,
Sumesh Soman, district forest officer, Vellore and Krishnamoorthy, forest
range officer of Pernambut inspected the land and conducted an inquiry.

"The elephant comes under Schedule I of the Wildlife Act 1972. We have
filed a case under the provisions of the Act and are on the lookout for
Damodaran, who has fled after the incident," Mr. Soman said. A postmortem
was performed by veterinarian at the spot.

He added that Pernambut range shares border with Andhra Pradesh, and there
is frequent movement of elephants. "In Vellore district, Pernambut range is
the only area where there is movement of elephants that comes from the
sanctuary. As crops are being damaged by wild animals frequently, we are
compensating farmers accordingly," he said.

Last year, the department disbursed compensation over Rs 9 lakh. Of this,
more than 50% has been given to the farmers in Pernambut range, he said and
added that around Rs 4 lakh disbursed to the farmers as compensation for
the crop damage this year. Of these, Rs 2 lakh has been given to the
farmers in Pernambut.
