Jumbo found dead in field - Ranger rules out electrocution (Dibrugarh
District, India)
Avik Chakraborty, The Telegraph
October 13, 2017

See link
<https://www.telegraphindia.com/states/north-east/jumbo-found-dead-in-field-178321>
for photo.

Dibrugarh: A female wild elephant was found dead in a paddy field in
Gorudhoria village of Lezai-Kalakhowa area in Dibrugarh this morning.

Lezai-Kalakhowa is 22km from Dibrugarh. A team of forest personnel rushed
to the spot after some villagers informed them about the dead jumbo.

Forest ranger Sanjib Bordoloi told The Telegraph that the elephant, aged
around eight years, was found dead but the exact cause of death is yet to
be ascertained. He said no injury mark was found on the carcass during
preliminary examination.

"The elephant was part of a wild herd which strayed out of Dehing-Medela
reserve forest. The herd, consisting 70 to 80 wild elephants, had stepped
out of its habitat in search of food which is common during this season. It
may have died of some ailment. There were no signs of injury or
electrocution. The carcass has been buried after autopsy," Bordoloi said.

Although the ranger denied electrocution as the possible cause of death,
live electric wires were seen on ground level in the paddy field where the
carcass was found.

Electric wires are put up by farmers around their fields to prevent
elephants from destroying their crops. In the past 11 months, three
elephants have died in the area from suspected electrocution while one
jumbo died of poisoning.

Although the forest department has filed FIRs in all the instances, no
action has been taken against anyone so far. "Last winter, three wild
jumbos died in the same area because of electrocution. They come in contact
with such wires at night and die. Forest minister Pramila Rani Brahma had
said the government will take steps to reduce man-elephant conflict but it
has been seen that the conflict is rising,'' nature enthusiast Nakul Khound
said.

In 2005, the US Fish and Wildlife Service sanctioned Rs 5.3 lakh under the
Asian Elephant Welfare Fund for construction of a three-strand
electric-powered fence along Dehing-Medela reserve forest to check elephant
depredation in the area but now elephants easily move into the village as
the fence broke down a few years ago.
