Tranquilised elephant calf dies in MP; 4 others to be commercialized (State
of Madhya Pradesh, India)
The Hitavadi
September 25, 2018

See link
<http://thehitavada.com/Encyc/2018/9/25/Tranquilised-elephant-calf-dies-in-MP;-4-others-to-be-commercialised.aspx>
for photo.

RAIPUR: Duplicity of human nature knows no bound as while they worshipped
the elephant-headed god on one side and cruelly killed a real, living,
breathing elephant calf on another in Sidhi district of Madhya Pradesh on
Sunday night.

Claims and counter claims flying thick and fast as beleaguered MP Forest
Department accusing unidentified people for poisoning while the wildlife
conservationists alleging the MP Forest staff of killing the elephant calf
by overdosing of tranquiliser anaesthetics.

After entering in the Sidhi district of MP from Chhattisgarh, a herd of
five elephants arrived at village Kundor of Kusmi Tehsil in August and
began raiding the farmlands and granaries two or three days later.

Elephants have reportedly caused most damage in villages of Kundor, Podi,
Karaunti, Aamgaon, Medhki, Jhapri, Shankarpur, Parasi, Charki, Mata,
Nodhiya etc. It sparked a series of protests by the villagers.

MP Forest Department came under tremendous pressure as the MP villagers
went as far as issuing death threats to the forest field staff.

Under-pressure officials of Sanjay Tiger Reserve sent a proposal for
capturing the jumbos, which was approved by MP Principal Chief Conservator
of Forest (PCCF) Sahbaz Ahmed and directed for keeping the animals in
Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve.

While the capturing may be justified due to public pressure, the
unprofessional way  with which the sensitive animals were caught can’t by
any sane means.

One of the captured elephants was found to have been shot by muzzle guns as
veterinarians discovered ball-bearings used as ammunition in crude muzzle
guns in his body. Luckily, he still survived.

The tranquilised elephants were kept at Ghoghi camp, where the calf died.
It is crucial to note here that young elephant had fallen ill the day he
was captured by tranquilising.

Just as the Forest Department was preparing to transfer elephants to
Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve, calf succumbed.

Fate of four other elephants has now been sealed in the box of captivity as
MP Forest officials have decided to train them, most likely for commercial
purpose, in Bandhavgarh instead of releasing back in the forests. Once wild
and free, the elephants will soon be used to ferry tourists or roll the
wooden logs.

Replying in a rather causal way, MP PCCF Sahbaz Ahmed told that elephants
will now be trained by mahouts. One elephant has been shot; no case has
been registered yet. Also, elephant calf has died of poisoning by
unidentified people and not due to tranquiliser overdose.”

http://thehitavada.com/Encyc/2018/9/25/Tranquilised-elephant-calf-dies-in-MP;-4-others-to-be-commercialised.aspx