Mystery shrouds death of elephant near Phulbadia (Mayurbhanj District,
India)
The New Indian Express
October 18, 2017

See link
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/odisha/2017/oct/18/mystery-shrouds-death-of-elephant-near-phulbadia-1677099.html>
for photos.

BARIPADA: THE death of an adult female elephant near Phulbadia village,
bordering Similipal National Park, sparked controversy as an activist
raised allegation of poaching, even as the forest officials suspected a
remote possibility of anthrax.

“The female adult was around 20 years old. She used to come here in a herd
of three elephants since the past three days. She was often found roaming
within the boundary of Similipal forest and in the surrounding paddy
fields. She might have died 48 hours back due to anthrax or natural cause,”
said Assistant Conservator, Arun Kumar Patra.

The carcass was found at a spot that comes under Udala range of Baripada
territorial division in Mayurbhanj district on Monday.

On receiving information about the elephant’s death, Deputy Director
Jagyandatta Pati, DFO Swayam Mallik, Assistant Conservator Arun Kumar Patra
and other officials rushed to the spot, along with a team of veterinary
doctors, including Dr Piyush Soren of Similipal Tiger Reserve, Khanim
Tangmaiee of Wildlife Trust of India and Sarat Kumar Patra and Debasis
Mohapatra of Udala.

The incident has set alarm bells ringing among the forest officials as they
fear the occurrence of an anthrax outbreak that killed around eight
elephants, a couple of years back.

However, the forest officials were divided in their opinions regarding the
cause of death. “The elephant died as she fell by the side of a trench and
received severe injury. The carcass had injury spots with the stomach
coming out,” DFO Swayam Mallik said.

Environmentalist, Vanoomitra Acharya, who also rushed to the spot, alleged
that the elephant was struck by arrows as her carcass bore several injury
marks.

“Poachers had tried to kill the wild tuskers in the herd and mistakenly,
the female adult fell prey to their arrows,” Vanoomitra claimed.“The blood
samples have been collected from the carcass.

It will be sent to Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology and
Animal Disease Research Institute, Cuttack to ascertain the exact cause of
death. The carcass was burnt near the spot. We are suspecting it to be a
case of anthrax,” Dr Piyush Soren said.
