Elephant deaths spark concern among wildlife experts (State of Odisha,
India)
The Orissa Post
December 1, 2018

See link
<http://www.orissapost.com/elephant-deaths-spark-concern-among-wildlife-experts/>
for photo.

ANGUL: The deaths of three tuskers in Angul district this month have
sparked concern among animal lovers and wildlife experts. While two adult
tuskers were electrocuted by poachers, the third died due to ill health.

Poachers shot dead a 35-year-old tusker in the Badagunda jungle of Khamar
forest range in Deogarh forest division November 9 night. They also took
away its tusks worth lakhs.

Although forest officials managed to identify the culprits, no arrests have
been made. “We have identified the culprits who killed the tusker. We have
also conducted raids but could not nab them. They may have fled to
neighbouring districts. We hope to get them soon,” said Ramakanta Sethy,
Range Officer of Khamar Range.

Five days after the tusker’s killing in Khamar range, another tusker was
electrocuted in Handapa forest range.

The 30-year-old elephant also died after coming in contact with a live wire
laid by poachers to kill boars near Hemamura village of Athmallick forest
division.

The tusker belonged to a five-member herd that had strayed into the
division from Angul. Five persons were arrested by forest officials in this
connection.

“We identified the villagers who laid the live wire. The five have been
arrested and presented in court,” said Athmallick DFO S. Samantaray.

Similarly, an 8-year-old tusker died in the Jilinda range of Satkosia wild
life division November 23. Although the exact reason for the death has not
been ascertained, forest officials said that it died of ill health.

Expressing concern over the continuous deaths of elephants in the district,
animal lovers urged the forest authorities to take proactive steps to
counter it.

“Elephant corridors should be improved, intelligence gathering strengthened
and training imparted to tracking teams to detect live wires and prevent
the killings of wild animals,” a local said.

Strict action must be taken against poachers who kill wild animals like
tuskers, tigers, boars and deer, he added.
