Shocking jumbo death, tribal man arrested (India)
B. Ravichandran, Deccan Chronicle
January 05, 2015

Ooty: The electrocution of a wild jumbo in a tribal settlement, right in
the heart of the elephant corridor near Ooty, has shocked foresters and
wildlife activists. The foresters have arrested a tribal in this regard. A
wild jumbo, which was a tusker, was found dead on Sunday morning at the
edge of a farmland at Chokkanalli tribal hamlet near Ooty. The hamlet is
located in the Segur valley elephant corridor.

The foresters who rushed to the spot found metal wires around the body and
burn injuries on a portion of the elephant?s trunk. Mr P. Premkumar,
assistant conservator of forests, Nilgiris north division, said upon
investigation, it was found that Raman (30), an Irula tribesman, had
connected a high-voltage power cable to the metal fencing along his
farmland on Sunday night, to thwart any attempt by wild animals trying to
venture into his compound.

The wild tusker, aged about 23 years, must have come in contact with the
electrified metal fence, the current passing through its body having
instantly killed it. ?We have arrested Raman for this illegal activity
which eventually killed the jumbo. We have warned the tribesmen living in
and around the Chokkanalli hamlet not to take to extreme steps, like
energising the fence with high-voltage power lines. They have also been
told about the Wildlife Conservation Act, binding the area, and the
punishment liable if somebody tried to defy the wildlife law,? he added.

When asked whether the arrested tribesman was in the regular habit of
energising the fencing with high-voltage electricity, Mr Premkumar said he
admitted that he had been doing so. ?The tribesman said he used to guard
the farmland at night after activating the fence and switch off the power
when the animals came near the land. He would try to chase them away by
creating noise, using instruments. On Saturday night, however, he had slept
after connecting the power line, which proved fatal for the wild jumbo,? he
added.

Dr E. Vijayaraghavan, the forest veterinary surgeon, who did the autopsy on
the carcass of the jumbo, said burn injuries were found in the trunk region
and a couple of other places.
