Steep rise in leopard, tusker killings in Chikkamagaluru forests (State of
Karnataka, India)
Meera Bhardwaj, The New Indian Express
May 19, 2018

See link
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/karnataka/2018/may/19/steep-rise-in-leopard-tusker-killings-in-chikkamagaluru-forests-1816573.html>
for photo.

BENGALURU: In the past few days, two species — a leopard and an elephant —
have been snared and electrocuted respectively in the Chikkamagaluru
territorial division.

This division alone has seen electrocution of eight elephants and snaring
of 12 leopards in the last decade.

Conservationists have expressed serious concerns on the lack of protective
measures in the state forests of Churchegudda and encroached forests of
Kamenahalli, as well as other ranges in this division.

Recently, a leopard was caught in a snare at Dasarahalli in Churchegudda
state forest, wherein, the villagers reported seeing the leopard roaming
with a live snare tangled around its neck.

The leopard had escaped from the snare but could not escape death. Forest
officials say hunters had fixed a snare in the fencing around Pavithravana
forest.

On Wednesday, a 20-year-old tusker was found electrocuted in Hirebidre
village of Kamenahalli forests.

This happened in the encroached forest lands of farmer Thamaiah.

He had illegally electrified the fence around this farm to protect his
ginger crops. Officials add that the absconding land owner Shivaraj, who
had earlier shot a tusker in the village in 2015, had leased this land to
Thamaiah for growing ginger.

Wildlife conservationist G Veeresh added, “Snaring is a silent killer of
wild animals and hunters/smugglers are using this method quite often in
forest areas and fields adjacent to tiger reserves, national parks and
reserve forest areas. Wildlife traders install snares usually to trap big
cats and so, it is also a question of survival of tigers. The forest
department should take note of this and pass strict orders for banning
usage of electrified fences in farm lands adjoining forests.”

Activists allege that for the last 10 years, snaring, electrocution and
poisoning of wild species, including big cats, are on the rise. “Protection
measures are pretty low in critical areas, while officials are
concentrating on plantation work and other civil works. So people have
started killing wild animals without any fear.”

Meanwhile, Chikkamagaluru Range ACF Ramesh Babu said, “Investigations are
on. Cases have been booked in both the incidents. Both Thamaiah and
Shivaraj are absconding, they will be arrested soon. Combing operations in
coordination with a Bengaluru NGO, who are specialists in snares, will
begin soon and will be done for two days. As far as electrified fences are
concerned, we are always on the lookout but it is very tough as farmers
switch on power any time resulting in such deaths.”

http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/karnataka/2018/may/19/steep-rise-in-leopard-tusker-killings-in-chikkamagaluru-forests-1816573.html