Government Neglect Kills Wild Elephant (India)
By Alka Dhupkar​, ​Mumbai Mirror
April 13, 2015

The state forest department is facing criticism after a captured wild
elephant died in Amberi in Mangaon tehesil, Sindhudurg district. The
elephant, captured February 15 in the Naneli forest and named Ganesh, died
on April 10. The same day, a postmortem was conducted and Ganesh was
cremated.

Captured elephants are kept in a top-open wooden enclosure (called kraal).
The intense heat - the temperature in Sindhudurg has reached to 38-39
degrees - is giving the captured elephants health problems. After Ganesh's
death, it has been revealed that the forest officers have never requested
the state or central authorities for elephant-expert veterinary doctors.
"We don't have 24/7 veterinary doctors to look after the captured
elephants," Ramesh Kumar, deputy conservator of forests, Kolhapur division
under which Sindhudurg falls, admitted.

"The assistant commissioner of livestock from Kudal does visit these
elephants at Amberi once a week, but it is not sufficient because neither
is he trained in elephant health nor can he pay regular attention to them.
These government veterinary doctors have experience of domestic animals;
relying upon them for elephants' heath is creating a big problem in
captured wild animals' well-being."

Of the other two captured elephants, Samarth is 30 years old and Bhim is
50. "Bhim is also unwell and needs immediate proper medical care," Kumar
said. He said that he will write to the state authorities demanding an
elephant-expert veterinary doctor.

According to Kumar, Ganesh's post-mortem report shows he died of a
cardiovascular attack. The viscera have been sent to the Maharashtra
government's forensic lab in Pune where all veterinary forensic work is
conducted. The report is awaited.

Vijay Palkar, a local journalist who has been following Sindhudurg's wild
elephant problem since 2002, said: "If available veterinary doctors have no
expertise in elephant health, how can they conduct a postmortem on them?
Now the dead elephant is cremated so we don't even have enough proof of
injuries he succumbed to."

Meanwhile, a video showing animal trainers mercilessly beating up captive
wild elephants has been widely circulated in the district. A four-member
team of the Karnataka forest department is in Amberi to train captured
elephants. The wild animals often cross into Maharashtra from Karnataka.

An eyewitness told Mirror: "When we questioned this brutal kind of
training, we were told that this is the way to train these tuskers, and
that such injuries do not harm the elephants."

The eyewitness alleged that sticks with knives tied to them were regularly
used to train the elephants.

Kumar denied these allegations: "These four members were paid 20,000 each
per month by our department. They are trained in such activity, as they
have experience in Karnataka." Rs 69 lakh was sanctioned in December first
week after special permission was granted by the central environment and
forest ministry to capture these wild elephants, which were causing serious
trouble to the people in Sindhudurg. Four trained elephants from
Karnataka's forest department brought to Sindhudurg to help in the capture
of the three wild tuskers were insured by the Maharashtra forest department
for Rs 5 lakh. The captured animals are not insured.

Since 2004, five wild elephants have died in Sindhudurg out of which three
were female. Two died post-capture and one female died due to a medicine
overdose. But then one cannot be sure of the cause of death. Now, the MNS's
district branch has demanded that the Kudal police investigate Ganesh's
death.