One held in 2 pachyderms death at Silghat area (Sonitpur District, India)
The Sentinel
December 5, 2017

TEXPUR: One person was arrested recently in connection with the death of
two elephants allegedly due to electrocution at Silghat under Borghat
Police station in Sonitpur district where they had gone in search of fodder.

According to Forest Department sources, two full-grown male and female
elephants came out from Kaziranga National Park in search of fodder and
entered the Chamodhora village in Silghat and were consuming paddy in the
paddy field. When they proceeded towards the nearby pond for drinking water
in the grounds of one Mukul Sarmah, the ill-fated elephants were
electrocuted to death.

Following the pathetic death of the elephants, the Sonitpur West Forest
Division reacted strongly and P. Shiv Kumar, Forest Conservator, Sonitpur
West Forest Division immediately ordered the local forest official inquire
into the incident, Forest department sources said.

 P Shiv Kumar, Forest Conservator, Sonitpur West Forest Division, further
said that the elephants died after being in contact with sagging
high-voltage 11KV electric wires kept in the pond by local resident Mukul
Sarmah.

The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. If the autopsy report finds
electrocution as the cause of the death, penal action would be initiated
against Mukul Sarmah.

“Lack of coordination between the local inhabitants in various parts of the
forest adjacent areas and forest department is proving fatal for the
itinerant animals,” P. Shiv Kumar said. Death of elephants by electrocution
has been a major cause of concern for forest personnel. The recurrence of
electrocution of jumbos is attributed to poor understanding between people
and the forest department in the State.

In forest fringe areas, live electric wires remain sagging at many places
and the protected parks and wildlife sanctuaries, conferred habitation
corridors of the elephants, face the onslaught of massive encroachment from
people who live and forage, or graze cattle in the forests. The human
interference of this nature is giving rise to frequent man-pachyderm
confrontation.