Goods train kills two elephants, injures calf (India)
From:
Melissa Groo <groo@elephantnews.org>
Date:
9/20/2007, 4:21 AM

Goods train kills two elephants, injures calf (India) 
Statesman News Service
September 19, 2007

KEONJHAR, Sept. 19: A speeding goods train hit two female elephants, killing them on the spot and injuring a calf. The incident happened when the herd was crossing the track at Bansapani near Joda yesterday. Sources said that a herd of elephants were crossing the railway line at Bansapani under the Joda police station limit, when a goods train coming from Jurudi hit the herd.
While two elephants died on the spot, the calf was injured. The rest entered the nearby forests.
 The DFO Mr Pradeep Karat who visited the spot today said: “It was the first mishap of this nature in the district.As the railway facility is relatively new in the area and the entire track passes through forests, the forest personnel have to take extra precautions to protect wild animals.
The forest department sources said that the injured calf would be soon shifted to the Nandankanan zoo at Bhubaneswar.
 Regarding the withdrawal of the Baitarani Elephant Reserve Forest, Mr Karat said that “the withdrawal of the project does not affect the number of elephants in the district.”
In Joda and Barbil areas, continuous mining activities, like blasting, is disturbing the wild animals of the locality.
Due to rapid industrialisation, some of the natural water sources have already dried up and some are on the verge of doing so.  As such the elephants are entering the human habitations and facing trouble.
 Forty-nine elephants have died for various reasons since 2001-02 in the district.
On 17 August, a tusker was killed in the Banamahuladiha jungle in Patna under the Ghatagaon range.  According to the 1995 census, there were 59 elephants in Keonjhar, and 145 in the proposed Baitarni Reserve project area.

Article at the following link:
http://www.thestatesman.net/page.news.php?clid=9&theme=&usrsess=1&id=170526
