Tusker terror in Udalguri villages (India)
Times of India
Jul 18, 2014

GUWAHATI: Panic has gripped villages along the India-Bhutan international
border in Assam's Udalguri district with a jumbo herd attacking humans and
damaging houses regularly.

Four persons were trampled to death by a wild elephant, which also damaged
houses, on Monday night. With this, the toll in elephant attacks in the
district has risen to 10 so far this year. One elephant was also killed.

After sunset, women and children in villages frequented by elephants spend
the night in safe places while men stay back to chase away the jumbos. On
Monday, the four persons killed when they were trying to chase away
elephants at Coramore and Bormukuli areas.

"There is hardly a single day when elephants do not enter villages. In
fact, herds of elephants entering villages have increased this time. It's a
big challenge to prevent the jumbos from entering human settlements," said
Dhansiri divisional forest officer G N Adhikari.

According to honorary wildlife warden Jayanta Kumar Das, at least 25
villages in the district are hit by man-elephant conflict. "The conflict is
taking a serious turn in Udalguri. About 25 villages have been hit by
elephant attacks. Udalguri is one of the worst-hit. Most of human deaths
occur when they try to chase away elephants from their croplands or
villages," said Das.

Sources said Udalguri is one of the districts where destruction of forests
and elephant habitat is taking place very fast. "Illegal tree-felling is
going on. Large swathes of forest tract along the international border in
the district has been cleared and human settlements have come up. These
forest tracts were elephant habitats. Now, elephants are forced to enter
these villages and croplands for fodder," said a conservationist.

Forest department officials in Udalguri said they had little resources to
tide over the increasing human-elephant conflict in the district. The
district falls under Bodoland Territorial Area District administration.
"Habitat destruction is the major reason why people are affected by
elephant attacks. The elephants no longer have their safe habitats now. So,
the conflict is intensifying," said Ananta Bagh of Green Valley Forest and
Wildlife Protection Society, a local NGO.