Two elephant calves killed in Assam (India)

India Blooms News Service 

July 17, 2010



Two elephant calves were killed in separate incidents in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park on Saturday, officials said. 



According to report, a six-year old elephant calf died after it was hit by a speeding vehicle on NH-37 inside the park in the wee hours of Saturday.



“When the killed elephant calf was trying to cross the NH-37 at Amguri under Burapahar Forest Range office in the Park, a speeding vehicle, coming from Jorhat to Guwahati, hit the calf. It died on the spot,” a senior forest official said.



In a separate incident, a five-month elephant calf died after it fell into a deep pond in the northern range area inside the park on Saturday evening, officials said.



Kaziranga DFO Dibyadhar Gogoi told IBNS, “The park authorities have taken steps to ensure safety of the animals that have migrated from the park. Vehicles, especially trucks, passing through NH-37 via Kaziranga National Park, have been imposed with restriction with regards to speed driving. Under Section 144, banning of speeding vehicles has been imposed and vehicles are ordered to drive under a limit speed of 40 km per hour.”



Meanwhile, elephant, rhinos and other wild animals are fleeing from the park to safer areas of the adjacent Karbi Anglong hills in the south due to flood in the park.



During the flood situation many animals use the National Highway to cross over to the hill.



In the past, there have been many reports of animal deaths due to speeding vehicles, while they try to escape.



Animal,s such as deers, are often found dead in such instances.



While wildlife organizations are taking action for conservation and ensure safety of rhinos, elephants and other wild animals, the authorities of Assam’s Kaziranga National Park have allegedly failed for ensure safety of animals inside the park.



Kaziranga National Park, a World Heritage Site, has two-thirds of the world's Great One-horned Rhinoceroses. Kaziranga is the highest density of tigers among protected areas in the world and was declared a Tiger Reserve in 2006. The park is home to large breeding populations of elephants, wild water buffaloes, and swamp deers.



It is to be mentioned that, 55 one-horned rhinoceros were killed by poachers in Kaziranga National Park in last four years.



Many cases were reported on man-elephant conflict across the state.



In last four years' report, around 70 people were killed and 500 others injured by wild elephants in various parts of the state.



More than 40 wild elephants were also killed during this period.



Article at the following link:

http://www.indiablooms.com/EnvironmentDetailsPage/environmentDetails170710d.php
