Speeding bus kills Rowdy Ranga, 46-year-old elephant, near Nagarhole forest
(State of Karnataka, India)
The News Minute
October 8, 2018

See link
<https://www.thenewsminute.com/article/speeding-bus-kills-rowdy-ranga-46-year-old-elephant-near-nagarhole-forest-89648>
for photo.

In a tragic incident, 'Rowdy Ranga', an elephant of the Matthigodu Elephant
Camp in Nagarhole, died after being hit by a private bus in the early hours
of Monday. The incident took place around 3.30 am on the Virajpet-Bengaluru
road, near the Nagarhole Tiger Reserve.

According to a note by the Forest Department, Hunsuru division, the
incident occurred due to the negligence of the driver of Kalpaka Travels
bus, as he was found to be speeding on the road.

Police officials from Ponnampet Police Station are investigating the
incident. The bus was reportedly traveling from Kannur to Bengaluru and was
being driven by Ismail Nalakath Bin Khadar, a 40-year-old driver hailing
from Kannur.

46-year-old Ranga was severely injured in the incident in the hip and the
back, while 35 passengers, traveling in the bus, escaped unharmed.
Veterinary doctors from the Rajiv Gandhi National Park attended to the
elephant.

However, in spite of attempts to treat Ranga, he breathed his last at
around 7.30 am on Monday. Ranga was brought to the elephant camp in
Nagarhole around three years ago from Bannerghatta National Park limits in
Ramanagara.

A senior forest official explained that it was common for elephants to be
left free in the night. "The elephants are fed at 5 pm and then they are
let out and are fed the next morning.

This is a common practice at the park. Incidents like these happen on this
road. One of the common reasons is because of the increased traffic on the
roads through Nagarhole following the ban on night traffic in Bandipur and
Nagarhole roads,” says Kantharaju HC, a retired forest official.

Kantharaju recounts that an Indian gaur was killed in a similar incident on
the same road two years ago. “In that incident, the animal died on the
spot. Drivers go at high speed on the roads at night. There should at least
be speed breakers on the road," added Kantharaju.

Night traffic is currently banned in the Bandipur Tiger reserve. Karnataka
and Tamil Nadu have consistently agreed on a night traffic ban while Kerala
has been opposing the move. Bandipur and Nagarhole tiger reserves are 90 km
apart in the southern part of Karnataka.

The elephant population in Hassan and Kodagu districts of Karnataka has
been threatened by repeated construction activities that have resulted in
the loss of lives and fragmentation of habitats in the last four decades.

The Hemavathi, Harangi, and Chiklihole reservoirs have come up during this
time, along with highways, power lines, pipelines and hydel projects.

This has disconnected the forests of Kattepura and Yedavanadu-Aanekaadu in
north Karnataka from the southern forests of Dubaree, Mavukal, Demavachi in
Kodagu district.